INT. ELEVATOR, HOSPITAL - LATER

Chris rides up the elevator, holding his scanner box.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          I made four hundred and eighteen
          dollars on each sale.

INT. CORRIDOR, HOSPITAL OFFICES - LATER

Chris carries his scanner down a long hallway.

                     CHRIS (V.O.)
          A thirty dollar ticket every three
          days was a business expense. I
          thought I’d take it out of the
          commission on my scanners. As I
          sold them.

EXT. OAKLAND MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - LATER

Chris walks out the same doors he entered on his way in; HE
STILL HAS THE SCANNER, THOUGH.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          I just wasn’t selling any.

INT. CHRIS’S HAZEL RIVIERA - LATER

This is a shot through the windshield of Chris’s parked car.
Bright orange tickets cover the lower half of the windshield.
Chris is visible through the clear space of the glass,
walking across the street up ahead, carrying his scanner.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          And I needed at least one
          commission a week to cover rent and
          daycare.

EXT. BUS STOP, OAKLAND - LATER

Later, Chris sits on a bus bench beside an unaccompanied
Chinese kid trying to play a trumpet; it’s nearly evening.
                                                            8.



                    CHRIS
              (facing the kid)
          Would you stop that?

The kid stops and faces Chris.

                    KID
              (to Chris)
          Hu xia tu hi ma.

The kids sits quietly for a moment, then he resumes playing
the trumpet.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          So... the bus...

The bus pulls up.

INT. BUS, MOVING - LATER

Chris rides beside the window, with his bone scanner, looking
out at the landscape.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          All I’m saying... riding the bus
          somedays is a drag.

The kid’s playing the trumpet somewhere behind him. Chris
sits there for a while. He’s sharing the row with a real
heavy guy and he’s sort of over against the wall with his
machine.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          I remember... I think it was this
          day... I remember I actually tried
          it.

Chris looks down at his scanner.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          Just in case that crazy fucker was
          somehow right.

Chris keeps staring at the machine.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          I had this stupid thought, or wish,
          that maybe he was right and
          everyone else was crazy, and maybe
          I was a time traveler and didn’t
          know it and could really go
          somewhere else if I pushed the
          button.
                                                         9.



CLOSE ON CHRIS as he considers this. He puts his finger on
the black button.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          And I actually pushed the button...
          like an idiot...

Chris pushes the button on his medical machine.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          ...and went nowhere.

Chris sits there for a moment. He’s gone nowhere of course.
Soon, he turns and looks out the window. The city’s going by
beyond him.

EXT. SIDEWALK, SAN FRACISCO    - LATER

Chris walks down the sidewalk with the scanner. He comes upon
a young man paying a meter for a parked Ferrari; Chris has
looked at the guy and the car.

                       CHRIS
                 (to the guy, saying hi)
          Hey.

                       FERRARI OWNER
          Hey.

                    CHRIS
          Can I ask you something?

                       FERRARI OWNER
          What?

                    CHRIS
              (to the guy)
          What do you do?

                    FERRARI OWNER
              (looking over)
          What? For a job?

                       CHRIS
          Yeah.

                    FERRARI OWNER
          I’m a stockbroker.

Time passes.

                    CHRIS
          Do you have to go to college?
                                                           10.



                      FERRARI OWNER
          Have to?

                      CHRIS
          Yeah.

More time goes by.

                    FERRARI OWNER
          You don’t have to.

Chris nods. The guy’s said it to mean you don’t have to but
you sure should. Then Chris starts to cross the street.

INT. CHRIS’S APARTMENT - LATER (NIGHT)

Chris and Linda eat dinner at the kitchen table without
speaking. Linda wears a grocery worker’s uniform. The
apartment’s small and unadorned with anything. Some time
passes during which there’s the heavy silence between a
couple not getting along.

INT. KITCHEN - LATER (NIGHT)

Linda cleans up after dinner. Chris walks past and sees a
RUBIK’S CUBE resting on a kitchen counter.

                    CHRIS
          What’s this?

                    LINDA
          A gift for Christopher.

                      CHRIS
          From who?

                    LINDA
          Cynthia. From work. It’s for
          adults. It’s an adult thing. Chris
          can’t use it. She didn’t know.

                    CHRIS
          What is it?

                    LINDA
          You’re supposed to make every side
          a solid color.

Chris picks the thing up.

                    LINDA (CONT’D)
          Did you pay the taxes?
                                                        11.



                    CHRIS
          I filed an extension...

                    LINDA
          You already filed an extension.

                    CHRIS
          I had to file another one. The bill
          was six hundred and fifty. I’ll
          have it in September.

                    LINDA
          That means interest. Right?

                    CHRIS
          Yeah. Some.

Money seems to be a source of conflict for them. Rather than
deal with it further, Linda leaves the room. Chris remains
there.

EXT. PATIO, APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS (NIGHT)

Chris has come out on the patio idly with the cube; it’s not
a patio in the sense that one would derive enjoyment from
sitting there. It’s cement space outside the kitchen. Each
small apartment in the complex has one, so Chris is sitting
five feet from his neighbor’s patios on either side. He’s
started messing with the cube. Time passes like this while
Chris, over a minute or so in real time, SOLVES THREE SIDES
OF THE RUBIK’S CUBE COMPLETELY. His thoughts are somewhere
else, though, so he doesn’t care to finish. He just puts the
thing down and goes back inside.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY (MORNING)

Chris and Linda share the real small space of their bathroom;
Chris brushes his teeth. Linda’s finishing dressing for work;
they’re in the middle of an argument.

                    CHRIS
              (upset about it)
          Does he have to be in daycare from
          6:30 in the morning?

                    LINDA
              (pissed too)
          Can you watch him?

                    CHRIS
          I need to be in the financial
          district. Before work.
                                                        12.



                    LINDA
          I have to open. It’s the
          nineteenth. We have to pay rent
          next week. I need both shifts.

Linda tries to leave and bumps Chris’s shoulder.

                      LINDA (CONT’D)
          Fuck...

Linda walks out. Chris is left alone. He stands there for a
while. Then he resumes brushing his teeth. A few moments go
by. Chris rises up and looks in the mirror for a while; he’s
sizing himself up. Time passes while Chris looks at himself.

INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Chris has followed Linda into their bedroom.

                    CHRIS
          I just want to go by Dean Witter.
          Before work.

                      LINDA
          For what?

                    CHRIS
          I want to see about a job.

                      LINDA
          What job?

                    CHRIS
          I want some information about a job
          there.

                      LINDA
          What job?

                    CHRIS
          Stockbroker.

Linda looks at Chris like he’s aiming off the mark for what’s
likely or best for them.

                    CHRIS (CONT’D)
          I could go through a math book in a
          week when I was a kid. I want to
          see about it.

                    LINDA
          I have to open. So you have
          Christopher.
                                                         13.



                    CHRIS
          I’ll go by during the day.

                    LINDA
          You should probably do your sales
          calls. Sell what’s in your contract
          and get us out of that business,
          Chris. Fuck, Chris. Okay?

Linda has finished dressing and leaves the room. Chris
watches her go.

INT. CHRISTOPHER’S BEDROOM - LATER

Christopher’s sleeping. The clock beside his bed reads 5:30.
Chris sits on the bed, waking him up.

                    CHRIS
          Christopher...

INT. BREAKFAST TABLE - LATER

Chris and his son have breakfast. The table’s in the kitchen.
The kitchen’s real small. It’s pretty early. Christopher’s
holding a cereal spoon. But his eyes are closed and he’s
motionless. Chris looks over at him.

                    CHRIS
              (trying to wake him up)
          Pssst.

Christopher’s eyes open. Chris looks at him. There’s a small,
black and white TV on the counter that plays local news;
there, a field reporter’s holding a Rubik’s Cube up for the
camera.

                    REPORTER
          ...is shaping up to the be the gift
          sensation of 1981. Don’t expect to
          solve it easily, although we
          encountered a math professor at USF
          who took just thirty minutes on
          his.

Chris notices the TV. He’s getting the idea the cube’s a
challenge he could pass easily. He looks back at Christopher.
Christopher’s eyes are closed again. Chris looks at him with
bad feelings he’s got his son up so early.

EXT. BUS STOP, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

Chris is freshly dressed for work and is holding a scanner as
he sits waiting for the San Francisco city bus.
                                                           14.


The kid with the trumpet sits beside him, playing it. Chris
stares straight ahead like he’s determined about something.

EXT. DEAN WITTER OFFICE, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

Businessmen and women walk around the financial district.
Soon, Chris becomes visible, turning a corner onto the same
sidewalk, joining the group of traders and brokers. He stops
and looks across the street at a Dean Witter branch office;
he’s holding the scanner. Then he turns back the way he came.

EXT. SIDEWALK, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

Down the street, Chris speaks with a GIRL JUNKIE who sits a
couple steps up apartment stairs off the sidewalk. The
scanner rests at Chris’s feet; Chris holds some dollar bills.

                    CHRIS
          Can I give you a couple dollars?
          You can watch this for me? I’m
          going in for a meeting. I don’t
          want to bring this in and look
          small time.

                      GIRL JUNKIE
          Yeah.

Chris hands the girl the money. Something occurs to him.

                    CHRIS
              (doesn’t want her to steal
               it)
          It can’t be sold anywhere. It’s
          medical equipment. It can’t be sold
          anywhere. I can’t even sell them,
          and it’s my job. I’ll give you some
          more money when I get back.

                      GIRL JUNKIE
          Yeah.

INT. RECEPTION AREA, DEAN WITTER BRANCH - LATER

Chris sits alone in the reception area. Then TIM BROPHY
enters the room.

                      TIM BROPHY
          Chris?

                      CHRIS
                (standing quickly)
          Hi.
                                                        15.



                    TIM BROPHY
              (offering his hand)
          Tim Brophy. Resources. I was going
          out to grab a coffee. Do you want
          to come?

EXT. PUBLIC SQUARE, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

Chris and Tim Brophy have come outside to a nearby public
park square. They’re mid-conversation, sitting together on
the low, perimeter wall of the park fountain.

                    TIM BROPHY
          Here’s an ap. For our internship.
          That’s all we can do for you here.

Brophy hands the application to Chris.

                      CHRIS
          Thanks...

                     TIM BROPHY (CONT’D)
          We have a resume sheet, too. We’ve
          had a lot of applications, though.
          We’re out.

CHRIS HAS NOTICED SOMETHING ACROSS THE PARK, THOUGH; THE GIRL
JUNKIE’S CARRYING HIS SCANNER OFF. She’s walked away with it
into the city.

                    TIM BROPHY (CONT’D)
          You can pick one up at your school.
          We send them out.

                    CHRIS
          Mr. Brophy, I have to go.

                      TIM BROPHY
          Okay.

                    CHRIS
          I have to. Thanks.

Then Chris rises and runs off.

EXT. SIDEWALK, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

Chris sprints through a large group of young market traders
on break.
                                                          16.



EXT. STREET/TRAIN STATION, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

The girl junkie with the scanner takes the stairs up to the
train. It’s a long shot that shows city sidewalk a good
distance behind her; Chris is visible down there running
toward her. But the train comes and blocks the view. The
train sits there, obscuring anything that’s happening behind
it. After a while, it moves along, and when it’s totally out
of frame it reveals Chris standing on the station platform
all alone without his scanner, having reached it too late.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          I rode up and down looking for her.
          That day.

INT. CITY TRAIN, MOVING - LATER

Chris stands near the window of the moving train, watching
the city landscape pass outside.

INT. CITY TRAIN, MOVING - LATER

This train’s moving the other way. Chris is seated now. He
looks at the papers Brophy gave him.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          There were three blank lines after
          “High School” to list more
          education. The program took just
          twenty people every six months. One
          got a job. The internship paid
          nothing.

EXT. CITY TRAIN PLATFORM, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER (NIGHT)

Chris leaves a train later with some others. He walks across
the platform toward the stairs, then he puts the application
in the trash can by the steps and keeps walking.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET, SAN FRANCISCO - MORNING

It’s just sunrise so there’s little traffic. Chris and
Christopher leave Linda at a bus stop bench for her ride to
work and start walking off on their own somewhere; Chris
carries a scanner, Christopher a backpack.

                    LINDA
              (to Chris, about the
               scanner, kidding sort of)
          Come back without that, please.
                                                           17.



                    CHRIS
              (trying to be light-
               hearted about it)
          I’m going to. Say goodbye to it.
          Because I’m coming back without it.

                    LINDA
              (to the scanner, just
               slightly amused)
          Goodbye. And good riddance.

                     CHRIS
              (trying to kid)
          You didn’t have to add “good
          riddance.”

                    LINDA
              (to Chris and Christopher)
          Goodbye.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - LATER

Chris and Christopher have walked farther into east San
Francisco, past a park where one guy’s shooting baskets.
Christopher’s watching him.

                    CHRIS
          That’s not how you spell it.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          How?

                    CHRIS
          P-p-y. It’s an “i.” Happiness.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          That’s an adjective?

                    CHRIS
          Yeah. It’s just not spelled right.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Is “fuck” right?

Chris doesn’t say anything for a while.

                    CHRIS
          Yeah. But that’s not part of the
          motto. So... you’re not supposed to
          learn that. It’s a grown up word.
          To show anger, and other things.
          Drop it, okay?
                                                18.



                       CHRISTOPHER
          All right.

                    CHRIS
          What’s it say on your bag? That
          tape?

                    CHRISTOPHER
          My nickname. We picked nicknames.

                    CHRIS
          What’s it say?

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Hot Rod. Did you have a nickname?

Chris thinks for a while.

                       CHRIS
          Yeah.

                       CHRISTOPHER
          What?

                    CHRIS
          Ten Gallon Head...

                    CHRISTOPHER
          What’s that?

                    CHRIS
          I lived in Louisiana, near Texas.
          Before I joined the navy. People
          wore cowboy hats. A ten gallon’s a
          big hat. I was good at school. I
          was smart when I was a kid, so they
          called me Ten Gallon Head.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Hoss wears that hat.

                       CHRIS
          Hoss?

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Hoss Cartwright. On Bonanza.

                    CHRIS
          How do you know Bonanza?

                    CHRISTOPHER
          I watch Bonanza at Mrs. Chu’s.
                                                         19.



                    CHRIS
          You watch Bonanza at daycare?

Christopher’s gotten distracted by a Chinese pushcart
passing.

                    CHRIS (CONT’D)
          Hey. You watch Bonanza at daycare?

Christopher nods.

                    CHRIS (CONT’D)
          When?

                    CHRISTOPHER
          What?

                    CHRIS
          When do you watch it? After snack?
          After your nap?...

                    CHRISTOPHER
          After Love Boat.

Chris looks down at his son, getting pissed.

                    CHRIS
              (quietly)
          Fuck...

                    CHRISTOPHER
          I made my list. For my birthday.

                    CHRIS
              (distracted, thinking
               about the TV issue)
          What did you pick?

                    CHRISTOPHER
          A basketball. Or an ant farm.

                    CHRIS
          Okay...

EXT. MS. CHU’S DAYCARE - LATER

Out front of the daycare doorway, in the San Francisco
neighborhood, Chris holds a conversation with elderly,
Chinese MRS. CHU.

                    CHRIS
          He says he’s watching TV.
                                                          20.



She shows Chris an inch distance between her thumb and
forefinger.

                    MRS. CHU
          Little TV. For history.

                       CHRIS
          Love Boat?

                    MRS. CHU
          For history. Navy.

                    CHRIS
          That’s not the navy.

                       MRS. CHU
          Little TV.

                    CHRIS
          He could watch TV at home. We pay
          three hundred dollars a month. I’m
          going to take him out if you’re
          watching TV.

                    MRS. CHU
          Navy history. Little history.
          Little TV. Go pay more at other
          daycare if you don’t like history
          TV.

Chris’s expression means he doesn’t have that money.

                    MRS. CHU (CONT’D)
          You late pay anyway. You complain,
          I complain. You late pay.

In the middle of this, Chris looks at his watch; he’s late.

EXT. TRAIN PLATFORM - LATER

Chris stands on a platform, with his scanner, waiting for a
train.

Chris looks across the tracks.

CHRIS’S POV

THE TRASH CAN CHRIS PUT HIS APPLICATION IN rests on the
opposite platform from his.

Chris stands across the tracks looking at it.
                                                           21.



                    STATION SPEAKER
          Blue line...

Chris looks down the line for the train. IT’S COMING. Chris
looks across the tracks at the trash can.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          This part of my life’s called...
          running.

Like a bolt, Chris takes off running. He sprints with his
scanner toward the platform steps down.

INT. STATION PASS THROUGH - CONTINUOUS

To reach the other side, Chris must run with his scanner
through the station underground pass-through.

EXT. OPPOSITE PLATFORM - CONTINUOUS

Chris has grabbed his application out of the can and taken
off for the stairs as the train pulls in across the tracks.

INT. STATION PASS THROUGH - CONTINUOUS

Chris runs back through the underground pass.

EXT. PLATFORM - CONTINUOUS

Chris reaches the other platform and sprints toward the
closing doors of the metro train. He jumps in as the doors
close and the train rolls off.

EXT. DEAN WITTER BUILDING, FINANCIAL DISTRICT - LATER

Chris stands outside the skyscraper lobby with his scanner
and application.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          I was waiting for Witter resource
          head Jay Twistle, whose name
          sounded so delightful, like he’d
          give you a job and a hug.

A tall, thin businessman MR. TWISTLE walks up toward the
entranceway from a cab.

                    CHRIS
          Hi, are you Mr. Twistle?

                    MR. TWISTLE
          Yes.
                                                          22.



                    CHRIS
          I’m Chris Gardner.

Chris shows him the application.

                    CHRIS (CONT’D)
          I wanted to drop this off
          personally and make your
          acquaintance. They described you in
          the office. I thought I might catch
          you on your way in.

                    MR. TWISTLE
          Okay.

                    CHRIS
          I’d appreciate the opportunity to
          discuss what may seem like
          weaknesses in my application.

                    TWISTLE
              (gesturing to Chris with
               the application)
          We’ll start with this, Chris. We’ll
          call you if we want to sit down.

Chris nods; he’s been rebuffed. He starts to walk away.

EXT. STREET CORNER, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

Chris speaks on a pay phone. The scanner rests at his feet.

                    CHRIS
          Chris Gardner for Dr. Delsey.
              (listening)
          I’m running late for a sales call.
          Acro. It’s with Dr. Delsey and Dr.
          Cross.
              (listening)
          Can we still do it? In a half-hour?

Then CHRIS CATCHES SIGHT OF SOMETHING.

CHRIS’S POV

Across the street, in a slice of space between skyscrapers,
Chris has seen the girl junkie and A BOYFRIEND walking by.
THE GUY’S GOT CHRIS’S MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.

Chris stares at them from across the street. He wants to get
off the phone and chase the pair, but the receptionist is
still speaking.
                                                           23.



                    CHRIS
          Okay.
              (listening)
          I’ll see you then. Okay. Thank you.

Chris hangs the phone up and takes off running.

EXT. STREET, SAN FRANCISCO - SAME

The girl and her boyfriend have taken Chris’s stuff to a bus
stop. They’re in a line of folks boarding the city bus. Chris
comes running up the street behind them. The bus pulls away.
Chris is right behind it, though, and never lets up running;
he’s pretty strong and fast and can keep up with the bus from
the sidewalk.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          That was my stolen machine...
          unless she was with a guy who sold
          them, too..

THE FRAME FREEZES on Chris in mid sprint.

                                                  CUT TO:

A QUICK FLASHBACK OF CHRIS SIGNING A CONTRACT IN A MEDICAL
SUPPLY COMPANY OFFICE

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          ...which was unlikely because I had
          the whole Bay area in my
          contract...

EXT. MEDICAL SUPPLY COMPANY WAREHOUSE - DAY (FLASHBACK)

With the help of a warehouse worker, Chris loads scanners
into the back of a rented van. Linda waits beside it, looking
on.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          ...which meant I more or less owned
          these things. Which seemed like a
          good idea at the time...

EXT. APARTMENT STAIRWELL - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Chris, Linda and the warehouse guy carry scanners up the
stairwell steps to Chris and Linda’s apartment.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          ..because I didn’t know yet that
          doctors and hospitals would regard
          them as unnecessary luxuries.
                                                          24.
                    CHRIS(cont'd)
          I even asked the warehouse man to
          take a picture.

INT. CHRIS’S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)

Because of a lack of space, Chris has had to stack the
scanners along the living room wall. There are thirty of them
stacked up there. Chris stands in front of the stack with
Linda. They’re posing for the picture. Chris smiles from the
enthusiasm of a new endeavor. IN FACT, HE OFFERS A THUMBS UP
TO THE CAMERA. HE NUDGES LINDA, WHO SEEMS A LITTLE LESS
ENTHUSIASTIC, TO GIVE A THUMBS UP, TOO; SHE SMILES AND,
BECAUSE SHE’S THROWING IN WITH CHRIS’S DREAM, GIVE THE THUMBS
UP, though it’s not quite as heartfelt as Chris’s. The camera
flashes.

INT. CITY BUS, MOVING - SAME

In the present again, the girl and her boyfriend sit toward
the back of the bus. It moves through the San Francisco
neighborhood. Chris is visible out the window, running
alongside the bus.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          ....so if I lost one, it was like
          losing groceries. For a month.

EXT. SIDEWALK - SAME

Chris runs hard to keep up with the bus; he’s still got his
scanner. The bus is pulling up to a corner stop; he’s going
to catch it.

Chris has reached the bus and goes right in in front of
commuters who were waiting.

INT. CITY BUS - CONTINUOUS

Chris walks past the driver without paying fare.

                    DRIVER
          Hey, man...

Chris head down the aisle with his scanner until he reaches
the junkies’ seat.

                       CHRIS
          Hey...

The guy looks up.
                                                          25.



EXT. BUS STOP - LATER

The bus doors have opened to let commuters off at a corner.
Soon, Chris leaves the bus with two bone density scanners. He
places them on the sidewalk to rest. He checks his watch.
He’s late for his sales call. He picks the scanners up and
starts running with them again.

EXT. STREET, SAN FRANCISCO   - LATER

Chris runs through San Francisco with both scanners.

                    CHRIS (V.O.)
          I carried them because I got paid
          at installation.

EXT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE, SAN FRANCISCO HOSPITAL - LATER

Chris sits at a board table across from a pair of doctors.
Both scanners rest on the table top.

                    CHRIS
          I could even install today.

                    FIRST DOCTOR
          We don’t need two.

The second doctor looks at the equipment.

                    SECOND DOCTOR
          We don’t need one.

Chris looks back at the doctors.

EXT. INTERSECTION, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

Chris carries both scanners across a city intersection.

EXT. CITY TRAIN PLATFORM, SAN FRANCISCO - LATER

Chris has retrieved Christopher and holds both scanners as
they wait for the train. Christopher’s looking at him.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Did you forget?

                    CHRIS
          Forget what?

                    CHRISTOPHER
              (nodding at the scanners)
          You’re not supposed to have any of
          those.
                                                        26.



                       CHRIS
          I know.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          You have two now.

                    CHRIS
          Yeah, I know.