OPEN ON: QUOTE AGAINST BLACK:

“The end of the world will be legal.” - Thomas Merton

CUT TO:


EXT. THE MAUNA KEA TELESCOPE ARRAY - HAWAII - DUSK

The world famous telescopes of Mauna Kea sit on a mountain on Hawaii’s Big Island framed by a brilliant orange sunset.


INT. SUBARU TELESCOPE - CONTINUOUS

A group of 4 GRAD STUDENTS in their mid 20s, DANIEL, NISHA, OLIVER, WIN and their PROFESSOR from Michigan State PROFESSOR RANDALL MINDY, 50s, Midwestern, bearded, not so ambitious since he got tenure, are winding down the day.

RANDALL
Knock... knock...knock...knock...

knock... knock...

NISHA
Is a gravitational burst at the

door?

RANDALL
Knock... knock... knock-

DANIEL
Wait! Is a pulsar at the door?

RANDALL
Very good Daniel!

OLIVER
Some pulsars emit double pulses.

That’s why I didn’t get it.

RANDALL
True Oliver but the vast majority

emit single pulses.

NISHA
I’ve got one!

(fast and whispered) Knock, knock knock knock knock knock knock knock knock knock knock knock knock knock...

OLIVER
What are you even doing?
 
2.


RANDALL
If I’m right it might help to be in a water tank a mile underground to get this one.

WIN
Are Neutrinos at the door?

NISHA
Yes!

RANDALL
Good one Win.

WIN
Oh! I’ve got one:

Knock..... Ka-blaaammmmmm!!!

Silence.

RANDALL
Uh-oh. Make sure you’re a few
hundred trillion kilometers away

when you open that door...

NISHA
A Supernova!

OLIVER
I knew that but I didn’t want to

wreck it for everyone.

PhD candidate KATE DIBIASKY, 26, dyed red hair, rides the fine line between geeky and alternative, enters.

KATE
Hey guys.

NISHA/DANIEL
Hey Kate! Hey!

RANDALL
There she is. The woman of the hour. Holder of another half night of time on one of the most powerful optical telescopes on the planet: Subaru.

WIN
How goes the supernova hunt Kate??

KATE
I got good data last time. I’m
hoping tonight’s the night.

(MORE)
 
3.

KATE (CONT'D)
If I get lucky my findings could help more accurately measure the expansion of the universe! A girl’s gotta dream right?

RANDALL
That’s the beauty of science Kate. There’s no luck! Follow your evidence.

OLIVER
(know it all)

I’d say the odds of you doing a better job than Nobel Prize winners at Hubble are improbable at best.

KATE
(under her breath)

You’re improbable at best Oliver.

OLIVER
What did you say?

RANDALL
Alright gang! Let’s clear out. I
think we’re officially in Kate’s
hair. Happy hunting Ms. Dibiasky!
And don’t forget to check your

standard stars.

KATE
Goodnight.

Everyone exits. Their conversation echoes down the hallway.

DANIEL
Knock knock.

NISHA
Who’s there?
(no response)

Who’s there?

RANDALL
I think a black hole is at your

door Nisha.

NISHA
I love being around you Professor

Mindy. You know so much!

RANDALL
I’ve just been around awhile that’s all.
 
4.


WIN
Are you blushing Dr. Mindy?

RANDALL
I don’t think so. Am I?


INT. SUBARU TELESCOPE - CONTINUOUS

Quick cuts as Kate prepares a BAG OF GREEN TEA AND A CUP.

The WATER BOILS. Tea is STEEPED.

Raspberry JAM is spread on a piece of WHOLE GRAIN BREAD.

A CARL SAGAN action figure is positioned next to the computer.

Kate types coordinates. The TELESCOPE REPOSITIONS. AND THE ROOF OPENS revealing a starry night.

And for the final preparatory touch Kate puts her ear buds in and HITS PLAY ON HER PHONE.

MUSIC: WU-TANG CLAN AINT NUTHING TO F’ WIT by Wu-Tang Clan

Kate raps along under her breath. She also SELF BEEPS any questionable words without falling off the beat.

As we hear Kate rap we cut back and forth between Kate’s COMPUTER SCREEN SHOWING A HARD TO DECIPHER IMAGE and A STUNNING REAL LIFE VIEW SPACE THAT ENDS ON A LITTLE SPIRAL GALAXY.

KATE
(to herself)

Come on... just a little explosion. That’s all. Just two stars exploding with the force of 10 trillion trillion tons of TNT...


She clicks several photos. QUICK TIME JUMP to her “stretching” the photos on a big screen to look for signs of a supernova. But there’s... nothing.

KATE (CONT'D)
Shit.

JUMP CUT: Kate stretches another picture. Still nothing.

KATE (CONT'D)
Shit, shit, shit. ...Huh.
 
5.


She sees something else, a small smudge of light. Quickly she takes more pictures.

KATE (CONT'D)
Okay... Okay... Be cool Kate. You

are a calm and cool scientist...

JUMP CUT: She stretches and sequences them until a clearly visible “streak” is visible in the sky.

KATE (CONT'D)
Holy shit... Holy shit!!


INT. SUBARU TELESCOPE - 2 IN THE MORNING - NIGHT

MUSIC: YOU GOT TO BE THE ONE by the Chi-Lites

A “Party” is coming together with Professor Mindy and the grad students.

RANDALL
Comet Dibiasky. It definitely has a ring to it.

WIN
I found four beers and three Diet Sparkles in the back fridge! It’s a party!

NISHA
I’ve got a hard cider and a bag of

Crossbone Crunch!

Randall is transfixed by the pictures.

RANDALL
It’s got to be an Oort cloud comet just based on where you saw it. Probably the last time it got this close to the sun was long before human civilization. Amazing.

KATE
The crazy thing is I found some
more detections of it from my
observing runs a few months ago.
But my code wasn’t looking for
something moving. When I saw it
tonight I almost started
hyperventilating!
 
6.


OLIVER
(jealous)
Maybe they ought to call it the

“Kate got lucky” comet.

KATE
Or we can call it “Discovered while Oliver’s smug ass was sound asleep.”

DANIEL
Please name it that Kate. For real, do it.

RANDALL
I’m just so thrilled for you Kate. I remember when I published my first paper on the gaseous properties of dead small galaxies back in 04. It was such a rush.

NISHA
How would we find out the comet’s velocity and orbit Professor Mindy?

RANDALL
What a great question. I haven’t done orbital dynamics since Grad school. But we’ve got a six-hour progression from tonight, a set from a few months ago... Win see if they have a copy of a celestial mechanics textbook back there.

Randall wheels over a white board. He begins to draw the XYZ Axis from FIGURE 1.

Daniel hands him a battered textbook.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
Okay. Gauss’ method is a good place to start...We’ll set up the coordinates like this.. The topocentric vector is rho... Kate, can you double-check the average astrometric accuracy?

Kate is on her laptop.

KATE
0.04 arcseconds.
 
7.


RANDALL
We’ve got a pretty good arc on this thing… So the iterations are converging nicely.

Quick time dashes as Randall writes more and more equations on the board and flips through the textbook.

OLIVER
I hate to be the guy who asks “do we have to know this for the test?” But do we have to know this for the test?

KATE
What is the comet’s orbit relative to earth?

RANDALL
Hmmm..interesting. Now that we have
the comets orbit. Let’s just check
the ephemeris. That will tell us
the distance between the comet and

earth.

NISHA
Kate, how cool would it be if you
could see it in the night sky?

You’d be famous!

He types into the computer and writes down the results. The distance between the earth and the comet gets lower and lower.

RANDALL
Well this is very interesting.

Randall writes the last part of FIGURE 2.

And then finally...he writes “O.OO”

His hand is frozen with the marker in it in front of the board.

KATE
Professor Mindy?
(beat)

Professor Mindy?

RANDALL
Alright everyone... Time to go back to sleep.
 
8.


WIN
But what’s the relative position?

RANDALL
I can’t figure it out. Sorry guys.

DANIEL
(yawns)
Let’s hit it. I’m wiped. That was

awesome.

The Grad students shuffle off. Randall hasn’t taken his eyes off the board.

RANDALL
Kate you stay.


INT. NASA HEADQUARTERS - HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER - MORNING

L/3 “NASA HEADQUARTERS, KENNEDY SPACE CENTER, FLORIDA 10:42 AM”

DR. JOCELYN CALDER, early 50s and political player, comes walking down a hallway fast in a sharp business suit.

INT. NASA HEADQUARTERS - OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Calder takes the phone from a NASA SCIENTIST.

NASA SCIENTIST
Dr. Calder. I thought you should hear this. A Michigan State Professor and his grad students are at Subaru and they saw-

DR. CALDER
(ignores him)

This is Dr. Calder. You’ve just pulled me out of a meeting where I had to tell my team we’ve lost 8 billion in funding because Congress wants an aircraft carrier that’s ALSO a submarine. So this had better be damn important.

RANDALL
I am so sorry Dr. Calder. But we are seeing some awfully strange orbital numbers on this comet we just found. They should be in your inbox.
 
9.


Data and pictures are on the computer screen in front of Dr.
Calder. Dr. Calder takes a look.

DR. CALDER
Okay... Hmm...Okay... You’ve
definitely found something large
here... But I’m no expert on
comets.
(beat)
Let me get Doctor Oglethorpe on the line. Please hold.


INT. SUBARU TELESCOPE - SAME TIME

RANDALL
I’m on hold... He’s calling a

Doctor Oglethorpe. Who is that?

Kate on her phone.

KATE
Dr. Oglethorpe: the head of the
Planetary Defense Coordination
Office in Washington DC.
(and then)

Is that a real place?


EXT. GOVERNMENT OFFICE BUILDINGS, WASHINGTON DC - MORNING

L/3 “THE PLANETARY DEFENSE COORDINATION OFFICE (YES, IT’S A REAL PLACE)

A collection of bland buildings in the Nation’s capital.

An African American man, late fifties, DR. CLAYTON “TEDDY” OGLETHORPE, whip sharp, seen it all, answers his phone as he walks into the building THROUGH A LIGHT SUN SHOWER.

DR. OGLETHORPE
This is Dr. Oglethorpe... Hey
Jocelyn... I see.. Why didn’t they
just report it to the Minor Planet

Center?... Really? How big?


INT. NASA HEADQUARTERS - OFFICE -FLORIDA- DAY - CONTINUOUS

Dr. Calder reads more and more print outs.

DR. CALDER
Mathew thinks this one is at least 5 kilometers wide...Possibly 10.
 
10.


INT. SUBARU TELESCOPE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

INTERCUT ALL THREE CONVERSATIONS as Teddy makes his way into the building and waits for an elevator.

DR. OGLETHORPE
That’s a big boy. And was this
Professor the one who first made

the observation?

RANDALL
Uh, Dr. Mindy, hi, and no, PHD candidate Kate Dibiasky saw it... I study um, trace gases in dead galaxies. I haven’t published in awhile so you probably wouldn’t know me - but that doesn’t matter obviously - sorry.

DR. OGLETHORPE
And what are the most updated

estimates on its trajectory?

Kate does more calculations on her Matlabs.

KATE
I keep getting the same result. Direct hit of earth in 6 months and 14 days.

DR. CALDER
Mathew?

NASA SCIENTIST
That’s exactly what our Scout

program is saying.

DR. OGLETHORPE
And it’s roughly 5 to 10 kilometers wide. Which means...

RANDALL
...Isn’t that an extinction level

event?

A terrifying silence hits the room.

KATE
I feel sick.

RANDALL
But these are just early
calculations I did. They can’t be

right.
 
11.


DR. CALDER
Okay let’s all stay calm. What’s the protocol for this situation Dr. Oglethorpe?

DR. OGLETHORPE
First move is to get the school
field trip out here to DC. I need
the person who first had eyes on

the comet and the person in charge.

Kate and Randall look at each other.

DR. OGLETHORPE (CONT'D)
Is anyone else in the loop on this?

RANDALL
No. I had the other Grad students
go back to the dorm and the night

shift crew left an hour ago.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Okay we need to share this data
immediately with Cambridge, Cal

Tech and the I.A.U.

DR. CALDER
Whoah, whoah. This is classified information Dr. Oglethorpe. I serve at the discretion of the President and her policy is all priority intel goes to her first.

DR. OGLETHORPE
But if these numbers are right-

DR. CALDER
The administration’s policy is
clear. Now let’s get the student
and the dead galaxy Professor to

Hickam Air Force Base now.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Okay... You heard the woman. Let’s

get moving.

They hang up. Terrified Kate looks to Randall who looks fairly terrified himself.

KATE
What the hell is happening?
 
12.


RANDALL
We should, um, probably pack up and let the others know to fly back to Michigan without us.

QUICK CUT:

KATE TAKING A HIT OF WEED ON A ONE HITTER


OPENING CREDITS BEGIN


EXT. HICKAM AIR FORCE BASE-HONOLULU-30 MINUTES LATER-NIGHT

Kate and Randall, each holding a mini suit case stand on the tarmac of a full on active air force base.

A CAPTAIN comes over to them yelling above the jets.

CAPTAIN
Word is I need you both in DC fast! Only plane we got going there is that one!

We see a C-5 Galaxy transport plane. The nose cone of the plane (the visor) is up as a line of trucks are being offloaded. The massive rear cargo bay doors are open.

RANDALL
Okay. I’m Dr. Mindy and this is-

CAPTAIN
Go! Go! Go!

He ushers them towards the massive plane.


INT. C-5 GALAXY PLANE - HOURS LATER

Kate and Randall sit in the vacant back of the plane. It’s like two football fields and is completely empty except for a perfectly cut in half Abrams TANK.


EXT. C-5 IN THE SKY - NIGHT TO DAY


EXT. JOINT BASE ANACOSTIA BOLLING - 7 HOURS LATER - 11 AM

C-5 lands.

Kate and Randall emerge from the open back of the huge plane to BLINDING LIGHT.
 
13.


EXT. WHITE HOUSE - 30 MINUTES LATER - DAY

Some tourists and souvenir stands outside. A BEARDED PROTESTOR holds a sign “THE METRIC SYSTEM MURDERED MY SON.” TWO WOMEN PROTESTORS hold signs “THE CENSUS STEALS PEOPLE’S SOULS!”


INT. WHITE HOUSE - SAME TIME

Randall and Kate, both pulling their bags on wheels walk down a hallway and see Dr. Oglethorpe and AIR FORCE GENERAL THEMES, 61, a straight ahead General with a permanent resting smirk.

DR. OGLETHORPE
You must be Randall and Kate. I’m
Dr. Oglethorpe but you can call me

Teddy.

RANDALL
Teddy?

AIR FORCE GENERAL THEMES Yeah, because he’s no Teddy Bear. General Themes, I’m the Pentagon’s eyes on whatever this turns out to be.

Everyone shakes hands, sits.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Is Jocelyn coming?

AIR FORCE GENERAL THEMES I don’t think so. She’s doesn’t want to end up in the President’s crosshairs.

KATE
Excuse me. I’m sorry. Is that the

oval office?

She points directly across from them.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Yes. The President should be here
shortly. She’s already been

briefed, correct Scott?

AIR FORCE GENERAL THEMES That is correct.

Kate speaks to Randall.
 
14.


KATE
Are we really about to tell the President of the United States that we have just over six months before mankind and pretty much all life on planet earth are completely destroyed?

RANDALL
That’s exactly what we’re about to do.

Kate turns to her left and DISCREETLY THROWS UP IN A WASTEBASKET.



MAIN TITLE:	DON’T LOOK UP




INT. WHITE HOUSE HALLWAY - A FEW HOURS LATER

Kate, Randall, Dr. Oglethorpe and Air Force General Themes are waiting... and waiting.

Finally a crisp and purposeful entourage makes it way around the corner.

IT’S THE PRESIDENT and her ADVISORS with Secret Service Detail.

The foursome stands to greet the President.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Hello Madam President. I’m Doctor Oglethorpe. I believe Jocelyn told you-

But THE PRESIDENT WALKS RIGHT PAST THEM and into the Oval Office.

DR. OGLETHORPE (CONT'D) What the hell Jason? This is real world.

A trailing advisor JASON, 33, is closing the doors.
 
15.


JASON
I’m sorry. Give us five minutes.
Our Supreme Court nominee is in

trouble.

OVAL OFFICE DOORS CLOSE.


INT. WHITE HOUSE HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

The foursome sits back down. They wait and wait.

THREE ASSISTANTS sing happy birthday to an assistant and leave balloons on the desk.

Shadows get long through the windows and eventually the OFFICE LIGHTS COME ON.

GENERAL THEMES
Does anyone want a bottled water or some snacks?

TEDDY
Thanks Scotty. I’m guessing these

guys are starving.

Kate scrolls through her phone.

KATE
There’s a bunch of stuff about
their Nominee not being
qualified... But I don’t see any

stories about our... thing.

Dr. Oglethorpe checks his phone too.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Nothing here either. Social media’s going on and on about that singer Riley Bina and DJ Chello breaking up... That’s too bad... They seem like sweet kids.

RANDALL
I don’t know them. But that’s a

shame. Kate do you know them?

KATE
Yes. But I really don’t give a shit right now.

RANDALL
I was just making small talk.
 
16.


Air Force General Themes returns from the coffee station with bags of Cheez-bits and bottled waters.

AIR FORCE GENERAL THEMES Sorry but they charge a fortune for this stuff. Ten a piece should do it.

RANDALL
Of course... I’ve got Kate as well.

Randall gives him a twenty. Dr. Oglethorpe gives him a twenty as well.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Do you have change?

AIR FORCE GENERAL THEMES No. But I can see if the front desk does.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Forget it. Get me back some other

time.

After a beat of eating, Randall checks his phone again.

RANDALL
I guess this DJ Chello posted pictures of him with someone named “Lady Baroque”... That’s why Riley Bina broke up with him...

Randall looks at Kate who looks straight ahead.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
Point being there’s nothing about

us.

Another beat of waiting. Randall reaches into his jacket pocket and takes out a pill. He bites the tip off and swallows with water. Kate looks at him.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
It’s a Xanax. I can only take a

quarter one or I fall asleep.

Kate takes the rest of the pill and dry swallows it.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
Oh. Okay.

SFX: Air Force General Themes’ phone alarm goes off.
 
17.


He immediately starts packing up his belongings.

AIR FORCE GENERAL THEMES I’m very sorry. But I have to be in Okinawa by two o’clock tomorrow.

KATE
Really? What for? I mean, this is-

DR. OGLETHORPE
It’s fine Scott. We have all the
information we need for the

President.

RANDALL
Thank you General. And thank you
for the Cheez-bits and bottled

water.

They stand, shake hands and the General exits.

Dr. Oglethorpe, Kate and Randall sit back down and wait more.

It’s now fully dark outside.

Kate gets up and walks down the hallway.

KATE
I’m getting more water if anyone

wants some.

RANDALL/TEDDY
No thank you... I’m good.

There’s a coffee station with bottled water and snacks. She grabs a bottle and a bag of chips. An OFFICE WORKER is there.

KATE
Excuse me, where do I pay for this?

OFFICE WORKER
It’s free.

KATE
Really?

OFFICE WORKER
Yes. It’s the White House.

Kate returns to Randall and Dr. Oglethorpe. The balloons on the desk are now drooping.

KATE
The snacks are free.
 
18.


DR. OGLETHORPE
What?

KATE
The snacks are free but the General charged us. Why would-

SUDDENLY THE OVAL OFFICE DOORS OPEN and the staff member from earlier, JASON, pops out.

JASON
I’m so sorry guys. It’s not

happening tonight.

RANDALL
Excuse me! Does the President know why we’re here?

He’s already closed the door.

KATE
They’re really not going to see us?

Are you fucking kidding me?

DR. OGLETHORPE
You heard him. First thing
tomorrow. Get some sleep and be at

your sharpest.


EXT. HACIENDA COURTS MOTEL - WASHINGTON, DC - LATER THAT NIGHT

It’s a rainy night. The traffic is nasty and honking.


INT. KATE’S ROOM - WASHINGTON, DC - CONTINUOUS

Kate talks to her boyfriend PHILLIP KAJ, 28. INTERCUT.

KATE
We waited seven hours. And they never even called us in. I couldn’t believe it.



INT. WEBSITE OFFICES - MANHATTAN - SAME TIME

Phillip, still mad he didn’t get into Yale, is in the offices of a news and culture website AUTOPSY. Despite the late hour, the open concept office is full. TVs and screens everywhere.
 
19.


PHILLIP
Of course they didn’t see you. Have you watched any news today?

KATE
No. We’ve been pretty... wrapped up in our... project.

PHILLIP
Turn on your TV right now.
President Orlean is in the middle

of an all-time shit storm.

Kate does so. There’s CVN coverage about the President’s Supreme Court nominee. It also plays in Phillip’s office.

ANCHOR 1
... Sheriff Wade Conlon was already a controversial nominee with no law degree and a record of shoot first and ask questions later but with his background as a nude life model in college now coming to light, the White House is in full crisis mode.

INTERVIEW with SHERIFF CONLON, 60s, walking fast away from the cameras.

SHERIFF CONLON (SOT) Life models are an important part of our nation’s rich artistic history. I have no shame in what I did! That’s all I have to say!

PHILLIP
And get this, I found five former students willing to go on record that Conlon got noticeably aroused when he posed for their drawing classes. It’ll be up on Autopsy tomorrow!

Kate turns off the TV with the remote.

PHILLIP (CONT'D)
Should I say “noticeably aroused”
or “engorged?” I don’t want this to
read like click bait. This is a
real story. Or what about

“unabashedly erect?” ... Kate?

KATE
I’m sorry, I’m just out of sorts

tonight.
 
20.


PHILLIP
Alright. You’re definitely in a
mood. And I have no idea what the
hell I did wrong so I’m going to

hang up before this detonates.

KATE
Yeah. That’s probably a good idea.

PHILLIP
Okay. But here’s a crazy idea that just came to me: what if sometimes our relationship was, oh I don’t know, fun? Wouldn’t that be something?

He hangs up. Kate just stares off. She starts to cry hard for a second but sucks it in.

KATE
No. No.

She reaches into the Motel drawer and takes out the bible.
She opens it and a packaged condom falls out.


INT. RANDALL’S ROOM - SAME TIME

Randall is on the phone while the TV plays a CELL PHONE COMMERCIAL in the background an APPLE like gravitas to it.

MUSIC: CALL ME ballad cover with strings.

LIEV SCHREIBER (V.O.) Faster, better, easier. That’s what you demand. Which is why BASH cellular was the first to bring you 8G. Allowing you to make a call from up to a mile below the earth’s surface. Then we brought you Vroom Vroom, the only social media site where everyone is popular. And coming soon: an even faster, better, easier way of life with a new platform that will change everything. BASH. Leave the innovation to us.

Then a REALITY SHOW comes on.

RANDALL
Hey honey... Yes, they couldn’t see us today so we’re in a motel for the night...
 
21.


INT. MIDDLE CLASS HOME - LANSING, MICHIGAN - DAY

Randall’s wife, JUNE, 40s, earthy yet sharp. She’s clearly the rock of the family. INTERCUT

JUNE
And you can’t tell me what’s

happening?

RANDALL
It’s just the protocol. Please

don’t worry.

JUNE
Just remember to speak up in the meeting tomorrow. You know how you get quiet when it’s time to take credit.

RANDALL
I will sweetie. How are the boys?

We see their sons EVAN, early 20s and MARSHALL, mid 20s who both look and carry themselves exactly like Randall.

EVAN	MARSHALL	
Hey Dad.	Love you! Hey Dad!	
Love you!	RANDALL	
		

JUNE
Marshall got a 180 on his LSATs and we’re celebrating.

RANDALL
Way to go Marshall! I’m proud of you buddy! How’s Evan feeling? Are the new meds working?

JUNE
Evan! How are you feeling today?

EVAN
I’m a solid four!

KEITH OLLENS
Hey Randall!

DR. KEITH OLLENS, 51, the dashing head of the astronomy department is there too.

RANDALL
Is that Keith?
 
22.


JUNE
Yes. He just found out they’re doing an episode of NOVA about his work on supermassive black holes.

RANDALL
Congratulations Keith!

On the other end Keith leans into the phone.

KEITH OLLENS
Thanks for taking over that field

trip for me Randall!

RANDALL
What? Of course Keith. Although it was an observing run not a field trip.

JUNE
Bye sweetheart. We’re going to eat some pizza. Lots to celebrate.

(Keith says something and everyone laughs)

JUNE (CONT'D)
Oh my God Keith just said the

funniest thing!

RANDALL
Honey you know the Xanax I carry around just in case? I lost it. Do you think you can overnight me-Hello?

He realizes she’s already hung up and then sees a text from Dr. Oglethorpe: JUST CONFIRMED TRAJECTORY. 99.78% WILL HIT EARTH BARRING INTERVENTION. GET SOME SLEEP.


EXT. WHITE HOUSE - WASHINGTON DC - THE NEXT AFTERNOON


INT. OVAL OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Randall, his leg moving nervously, Dr. Oglethorpe and Kate sit in the Oval Office across from PRESIDENT JANIE ORLEAN, 60s.

President Orlean has bright blonde statement hair, remnants of a Long Island accent and behind her dozens of copies of her best selling “HOW TO MANAGE YOUR MONEY EVEN WHEN YOU HAVE NONE.”
 
23.


Her Chief of Staff who we met yesterday, son Jason is there along with TWO OTHER AIDES in their 70s.

The President checks her phone and texts for a long beat while everyone waits. Finally she puts it down and addresses the room.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Okay, I heard there’s something
about an asteroid or a comet you
don’t like the looks of. Tell me
about it and then tell me why

you’re telling me about it.

Teddy Oglethorpe looks at Randall.

DR. OGLETHORPE
You’re up Doc. Go.

Randall is very nervous.

RANDALL
Okay... okay, um, 36 hours ago a graduate student, Kate Dibiasky here... discovered a large comet, 5-10 kilometers across, that we calculate is from the Oort cloud, the outer part of the solar system.

He pauses. Looks at his notes. Looks up. The President gives him a “go on” look. Randall’s hand shakes a little as he looks at his notes.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
And uh, using Gauss’ method of
orbital determination and the
average astrometric uncertainty of
0.04 arcseconds... we then asked
the question: what does Marsden
1985’s iterative numerical method
tell us about the heliocentric
orbit of the-

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Whoah, whoah. What the hell?

JASON
Seriously. Stop it.

RANDALL
What?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Knock that shit off.
 
24.


KATE
(cuts to the quick)

Dr. Mindy is trying to say the comet is headed directly at earth.

RANDALL
Yes, uh, that’s correct. In roughly over six months without intervention the comet will wreck catastrophic and irreversible damage to the earth’s entire ecosystem.

DR. OGLETHORPE
And I’ve confirmed all of this data myself using NASA computers. Dr. Jocelyn Calder is also aware of the situation.

Half beat.

JASON
Okay. Can we see it?

AIDE #1
We’re going to need visual

confirmation.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Yes, we have extensive optical
images taken by Ms. Dibiasky here

from the Subaru telescope...

He lays out the photos highlighting the blurry “streak.” The President and Jason examine the pictures.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
I don’t know what I’m looking at. I see some arrows and a smudge.

KATE
It’s a comet and according to
NASA’s computers this object will
hit the Pacific Ocean a sixty two
miles due west off the coast of

Chile.

JASON
And then what happens? A tidal

wave?
 
25.


RANDALL
Well yes, but many tsunamis, each of them hundreds of meters tall, fanning out across the globe in all directions. Not to mention massive unprecedented earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. And worst of all the debris from the impact would eject into the atmosphere heating it up to 500 degrees celsius upon reentry cooking all life larger than a field mouse.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Madame President, this comet is

what we call a planet killer.

President Orlean takes this all in.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
How certain is this?

RANDALL
There is basically a 100% certainty of impact.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Please don’t say 100%.

AIDE #2
It’s a potentially significant

event.

KATE
But it’s not “potentially” going to happen. It is going to happen.

RANDALL
Well it’s 99.78 percent to be

exact.

JASON
So it’s not 100%.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Scientists never like to say 100%.
Every data set contains at least a

small degree of uncertainty.

JASON
He just said it’s 100%.
 
26.


RANDALL
Well there could be an interstellar collision or the comet could melt at an accelerated rate.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Call it 70% and let’s move on.

KATE
It’s not even close to seventy
percent. I’m sorry but are we not

being clear?

JASON
Considering it looks like someone
wiped snot on your picture 70% is

pretty generous.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
The point is you can’t go around
telling people there’s a 100%

chance they will die.

JASON
Sixty percent as a working number.

RANDALL
Wait. What?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
And we should get our own
scientists on this. No offense, but
you’re just two people who walked

in here with...

DR. OGLETHORPE
Dr. Oglethorpe, I’ve been at NASA for fifteen years. And Dr. Mindy is a tenured Professor of astronomy at Michigan State where Ms. Dibiasky is a doctoral candidate.

JASON
Michigan State?

DR. OGLETHORPE
They have an excellent astronomy

department.

JASON
If you say so.
 
27.


KATE
Are you serious? Do you want to see our goddamn SAT scores?

DR. OGLETHORPE
Easy now.

JASON
Cornell Business school class of

‘05.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Okay, let’s bottom line this. So
what’s the ask here? Why isn’t this
Chile’s problem or a private sector

issue?

RANDALL
With all due respect, this will
affect the whole planet, not just
Chile. The impact is a global
event. Over 7 billion people will

die.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Madame President there are
government plans in place. Actions
we can take through NASA. Drones
that can be outfitted with nukes to
deflect and hopefully change the
orbit of this comet. But
respectfully, we must act now.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Alright, alright, let me think

here... When are the midterms?...

JASON
Three weeks.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Three weeks. If this breaks before then we could lose Congress and then there’s nothing we can do about this anyway.

JASON
It’ll be gridlock.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
We’re also getting absolutely
crucified because our SCOTUS
nominee popped a woody in front of
an art class 40 years ago...

(MORE)
 
28.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D)
We can’t let this get political... But at the same time it’s entirely political. God, the timing really is atrocious.
(breath)
At this exact moment... I say we
sit tight and assess.

RANDALL
Sit tight and assess?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
If there’s two things voters hate
it’s math and bad news. This is

both.

KATE
You want us to sit tight?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Just for three weeks. Until the mid terms. We hear you and we will take action when the time is right.
Meanwhile we get some of our people on it. Some Ivy Leaguers, no offense. And we review the NASA plans.

OLD AIDE #1
We just cut NASA’s budget to pay
for the Trident Sub Aircraft

Carrier.

JASON
It’s a sub that once it surfaces
opens up to become an aircraft
carrier. It’s going to kick major

ass.

KATE
Hold on. I want to make sure I’m understanding this: is the decision being made right now to “sit tight?”

JASON
Seriously. Who is she?

KATE
Who are you? Aren’t you her son?

JASON
I am also the chief of fucking

staff, Miss State School.
 
29.


PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Shut up Jason.

JASON
I’m sorry Mom.

RANDALL
The idea of sitting tight seems very dangerous. The fact is the closer the distance the more energy intervention requires.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Well in my experience facts are
just opinions for fancy people. We
are the White House and we will
handle this. But we will do it when
it is best for the nation. Not for
you.

President Orlean takes a pack of smokes out of her desk and lights one.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D) When I ran for President I had to sneak cigarettes for the first month of the campaign. Photographs of me smoking were going for a hundred grand a shot. Until finally I got sick of it and just started... smoking. Whenever I wanted. And guess what happened? I went up three points in the polls.

JASON
People loved that she was real.

She’s a rock star.

AIDE #1
It was really something.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Do you know how many “the world is going to end meetings” we’ve had in the last two years?

AIDE #2
A lot.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Economic collapse, loose nukes, car
exhaust killing the atmosphere,

rogue A.I.
 
30.


JASON
Drought, famine, plagues, population growth, the hole in the ozone, the rapture, alien invasion...

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Okay. That’s enough Jason. Read the room for once in your life.
(exhales a giant plume of
smoke)

The point is... I have a job to do. And that job is to not slam the brakes on the whole country every time someone gets spooked by some numbers. But we hear you, we will vet the science, focus group the talking points and in the end we will do what’s best. And that is a promise.

JASON
We got this. For real.

RANDALL
Well that’s good to hear.

KATE
Focus group the talking points?

JASON
Who said anything about focus

groups?

KATE
Didn’t she just say-

Dr. Oglethorpe stands up.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Madam President, eventually there are other people who are going to see this. There’s a group in Mexico using the 10-meter in the Canary Islands...

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Don’t worry. We’ll handle them.
We’ve got the nukes.
(wrapping it up)
Okay, let’s do the pictures. I’m
late for the NCAA championship
softball team.
 
31.


A PHOTOGRAPHER steps out of the side door and takes a series of rapid fire pictures.

JASON
And gang, obviously everything we’ve discussed here is classified.


INT. WHITE HOUSE HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Randall, Kate and Teddy walk away down the hallway.

DR. OGLETHORPE
No one say a word. Not a goddamn

word until we’re clear.

They walk silently for a beat.

KATE
Did we just get blown off? They

blew us off didn’t they?

DR. OGLETHORPE
Wait until we’re clear.

RANDALL
When’s clear? What just happened?

KATE
Wasn’t her son the host of

Celebrity Matchmaker?

DR. OGLETHORPE
Wait until we’re clear.

CUT TO:


EXT. BOJO MAMBO’S SHRIMP RESTAURANT - AN HOUR LATER


INT. BOJO MAMBO’S - WASHINGTON DC - SAME TIME

Randall, Kate, and Teddy Oglethorpe are eating seafood and having beers and a glass of white wine.

KATE
Why is this place clear?

DR. OGLETHORPE
No self-respecting NSA officer’s
gonna tell his superior he put a

wire in a Bojo Mambo’s.
 
32.


RANDALL
Do I smell? I was sweating so much.

KATE
No. You’re fine.

RANDALL
It’s hard for me to talk about
but... sometimes I get panic

attacks.

KATE
No shit.

RANDALL
That’s a mean thing to say.

KATE
I’m sorry. Okay?
(back to it)

So what do we do? We have to leak this right? There’s no way we “sit tight.” That’s insane.

RANDALL
Are we sure they weren’t taking us seriously? It wasn’t the response I was hoping for but... are we sure?

DR. OGLETHORPE
I’ve been blown off by the very best. The kind of blow off where you don’t realize it til a month later. And they aren’t even close to the best. So yeah, we got blown off.

RANDALL
So then we leak it. We have no

choice. Right?

DR. OGLETHORPE
Hell yeah, we leak it. No question. But you two need to get your asses ready for the churn.

RANDALL
Wait. What’s the churn?

DR. OGLETHORPE
The big chatter, the beast... the

24 hour news cycle. It’s no joke.
 
33.


KATE
We’ll be fine. People need to know this right now.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Listen, years back I had about five years in this town where I was hot shit. An asteroid had blown up over Russia and I was hitting all the daily news shows, being quoted left and right. And then I was testifying before Congress and this old road apple of a Representative from Texas was questioning me.

QUICK FLASH OF A CONGRESSMAN’S HAND AND MOUTH SPEAKING INTO A MIC AT A HEARING. ANOTHER CONGRESSMAN NEXT TO HIM.

DR. OGLETHORPE (CONT'D) I knew he was an idiot so I trapped him. Got him to admit on camera he had no idea who Isaac Newton was. He thought he was a black activist from the 60s. And the clip got shown everywhere.

Waitress comes by.

RANDALL
May I have another ice water.

Kate slams her wine.

KATE
I’ll have two more wines. And don’t make that judgey face please.

DR. OGLETHORPE
And then for the next three years my entire career came apart. I went backwards and backwards. My wife even left me for a wide receiver from the Eagles. Handsome son of a bitch. Ran a four four. Point being I had no idea what had happened. And one day a package shows up at my divorced guy apartment and inside was Sir Isaac Newton’s The Principia.

FLASH of the book being unwrapped from tissue paper.
 
34.


DR. OGLETHORPE (CONT'D) With a note from that old road apple Congressman: “Hope the fall didn’t hurt your ass too much.”

RANDALL
Jesus. That’s awful.

KATE
Thanks for the pep talk. I feel

great now.

Teddy gets up and puts a few twenties on the table.

DR. OGLETHORPE
The point is you gotta be smart. You’re about to leak classified materials against a President whose base thinks when she pisses there’s a cork popping sound.
(and then)
Oh wait! This commercial kills me.

The TV by the BAR plays: A HUSBAND is binging eating right out of his OPEN FRIDGE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT in a dark kitchen.

LIGHTS COME ON and it’s his WIFE. He is caught with his mouth full of PIE.

WIFE (SOT)
How’s the new diet going?

Beat.

HUSBAND (SOT)
Meow?

Teddy and some of the people at the bar LAUGH hard.

ANCR (SOT)
Land Trust insurance. Because
sometimes plans don’t go as

planned.

KATE
If we stand here laughing at insurance commercials for one more second I’m going to fucking SCREAM.

DR. OGLETHORPE
We’re going. We’re going.
 
35.


INT. WASHINGTON UNION STATION - 40 MINUTES LATER

Kate and Randall followed by Teddy speed through the DC train station pulling their bags towards their track. Kate finishes a call on her cell phone.

KATE
No, I can’t tell you. You just have to trust me. Okay, see you soon.
(hangs up)
My boyfriend Phillip says he knows a reporter from the New York Herald we can talk to. “Adul Grelio.”

DR. OGLETHORPE
Good. That guy’s a heavy hitter.
And I’ll reach out to more of the
scientific community on the down

low.

They’re getting on the train.

RANDALL
I just feel like this isn’t what I do.

DR. OGLETHORPE
You’re just telling a story! Keep

it simple! And no math!

RANDALL
But it’s all ma-

Train doors close.

As the train pulls away there are a series of ADS WITH A FEW WORDS ON EACH: “IN THE BEGINNING” “GOD SAID” “LET THERE BE LIIF”

CUT TO:


INT. GIANT CONVENTION CENTER - SAN FRANCISCO - DAY

A 10 STORY SCREEN SHOWS the ceiling of the SISTINE CHAPEL.
PUSH IN TO GOD’S HAND TOUCHING ADAM’S.

MUSIC: Philip Glass meets Timberland.

LIEV SCHREIBER (V.O.)
It all started with a connection...
A simple gesture that created so

much...
 
36.


GOD’S HAND TURNS revealing a CELL PHONE. Images flash of families, a baby being born, a child riding a bike, a girl with her prom date and on and on getting faster and faster...

LIEV SCHREIBER (V.O.)
Family. Business. Love. Social
Media. Shopping. Mental Health.
Spirituality. Dating. Sports.
Medicine. Friendship. Laughter.
Love. News.
(and then)
So many choices. Sometimes it can even feel like too much. Until now.

THE CELL PHONE GLOWS and then Adam’s hand turns revealing a SECOND CELL PHONE. PUSH IN TO THE SCREEN to see the texted words “Let There Be Life. BASH Liif.”

LIEV SCHREIBER (V.O.) Introducing BASH Liif. Liif without the stress of living.

The CROWD of 5 thousand TECH CONFERENCE attendees applauds heartily.

FEMALE ANCR (V.O.)
And now Chief Operating Officer and founder of BASH: Peter Isherwell.

THREE CHILDREN (AGES 8-9 African American, Asian American and Caucasian) enter the stage with Peter Isherwell, an ageless optimistic yet very shy man in a windbreaker.

PETER ISHERWELL
Hello everyone. As some of you know I sometimes struggle with public speaking because of an early childhood trauma that to this day I still cannot speak of. But thanks to the “spokesman” mode on my BASH phone I can share my traumatic tale with as the Beatles wrote “a little help from my friends.”
