DR. OGLETHORPE
(whispering)

You gotta take it down about four or five notches now red. If the White House hears we’re yelling classified materials out in a Bojo Mambo’s Shrimp they’ll put you, and I mean specifically you, in Leavenworth.

The WAITRESS, 23, comes over.

WAITRESS
Were you just yelling about why
they turned that mission around?
Why were you talking about cell

phones?
 
101.


DR. OGLETHORPE
My friend was just theorizing as to what’s going on. We’re confused too.

WAITRESS
That’s an official looking White

House badge you have on.

Randall is still wearing his White House laminate ID.

WAITRESS (CONT'D)
Just tell us what’s going on. We

deserve to know.

Another GUY FROM THE BAR comes over.

GUY FROM THE BAR
These people know what’s going on?

A NEARBY DINER turns from a table near them.

NEARBY DINER
I heard them talking. They

definitely know some things!

GUY FROM THE BAR
Hey, I got three scared kids at
home. How about you just tell us

something?

RANDALL
We can’t say anything. I’m sorry.

GUY FROM THE BAR
We’re people just like you. We

deserve to know!

DR. OGLETHORPE
Sir, there are national security laws in place that we must observe for the good of-

KATE
Screw this. You wanna know what’s going on? Does everyone really want to know what’s going on?!

Now the WHOLE RESTAURANT is listening.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Kate don’t-
 
102.


CUSTOMERS
Yes! Just tell us! Etc.

KATE
They found out there’s a bunch of
gold and diamonds and other rare
shit in the comet and now they’re
going to let it hit earth so a
bunch of rich people can get even
more disgustingly rich!

Everyone freezes.

What the hell does anybody do with that information?

CUT TO:


EXT. BOJO MAMBO’S SHRIMP - 20 MINUTES LATER

People are SMASHING OUT THE WINDOWS ON THE RESTAURANT. 4 COP CARS are there with LIGHTS FLASHING. There’s a dumpster and a car on FIRE.

PATRONS
Assholes are gonna kill us all!...

Tell us the truth!! Etc.

CUSTOMERS FIGHT WITH COPS. Others LOOT AND DRINK FREE LIQUOR.

Kate is in the back of a BLACK SEDAN with a HOOD OVER HER HEAD. Teddy and Randall talk to her through the car window.

DR. OGLETHORPE
I’m starting to think you just like riling people up Red.

RANDALL
I’m so sorry Kate.

KATE
Don’t you have another talk show
appearance to do? Where’s Brie
Evantee? Aren’t you having dinner

with her and Harrison Telms?

DR. OGLETHORPE
The girl ain’t wrong. You lost the thread in a big way “Dr. Randy.”

RANDALL
So you want me to just quit and
leave the future of life on earth
to Jason Orlean?

(MORE)
 
103.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
I didn’t turn that mission around! Now the only chance we have is to make sure this one works!

FEDERAL AGENT approaches.

AGENT
I’m sorry Dr. Mindy. White House

wants her off the grid. Now.

KATE
Wait! What does that mean? Hey!

What the hell does that mean?!

THE CAR DRIVES AWAY. Teddy walks away from Randall.

RANDALL
Teddy! Come on! What choice do I

have?

DR. OGLETHORPE
A man’s always got choices!
(turns back to him)
Sometimes he’s just gotta choose

the good one!


INT. PATRIOT NEWS STUDIO - NEXT DAY

President Orlean is having a one on one interview with Dan Pawketty in a book lined study.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Dan, millions of working people
around the world are hungry and
struggling to pay their medical
bills. I truly believe God has sent

us a miracle.

DAN PAWKETTY
The courage it must have taken to turn that spaceship around... God I admire you.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
When it comes to jobs for the
American people it’s a very easy

decision.

The President takes out a cigarette. Dan Pawketty lights it.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D)
But I’m also a Mother. And as a
Mother safety comes first.

(MORE)
 
104.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D)
And this mission will harm no

one... and benefit everyone.


INT. GIANT MILITARY TRANSPORT PLANE - SAME TIME

Kate is in the back of the massive transport plane with the hood still over her head flying to God knows where.


INT. PATRIOT NEWS STUDIO - CONTINUOUS

DAN PAWKETTY
What about this wing nut Kate Dibiasky that’s all over the internet yelling in Shrimp restaurants? She’s got some people awfully upset.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
She’s obviously severely mentally
ill. And word is her Father had to
go into rehab in 2009. They’ve

suffered enough.

DAN PAWKETTY
You always take the high road. I

love that about you.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
All I know Dan is that when God
sent manna down from heaven to the
Israelites Moses didn’t try and
deflect it. Or hide from it. They

picked it up and they ate it.

She has a large ash on her cigarette. Dan holds his coffee cup out and she taps her cigarette into it.

DAN PAWKETTY
So true. I’ve also heard some people, some very credible people I might add, say that there isn’t a comet at all. That it’s a hoax made up by fat cat astronomers. How do you respond Madame President?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Look, I’m no scientist, so I have
no possible way of answering that
question.

(MORE)
 
105.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D) But make no mistake about it, if extremist radical scientists are lying to us to push their agenda they will be locked up for a long time.

Dan takes a sip of his coffee.


EXT.	SCOTT AIRFORCE BASE - ST. CLAIR, ILLINOIS - MORNING

The HOOD IS REMOVED FROM KATE’S HEAD revealing she is in a small office with an air force base outside the window. A JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ATTORNEY, 41 is in front of her with TWO SOLDIERS behind him. He reads a written statement.

FEDERAL ATTORNEY
Ms. Kateland Dibiasky, the charges against you are violation of national security secrets, inciting a riot and destruction of private property owned by Bojo Mambo Shrimp LLC.

KATE
But I didn’t-

FEDERAL ATTORNEY
However, the Attorney General is
willing to not pursue prosecution
if you will agree to the following:
a suspension of all public media
appearances and incendiary language
relating to Comet Dibiasky and BASH
Cellular.

Beat.

KATE
Give it to me. I don’t give a shit anymore.

She signs the agreement.

CUT TO:


INT. MIDDLE CLASS KITCHEN - DAY

TV COMMERCIAL: A worried HOUSEWIFE is in a kitchen. Her children run past.

MUSIC: Like a pharma ad: contemplative yet hopeful
 
106.


HOUSE WIFE
(to camera)

I worry about my kids and their future. Sure the jobs the comet will create sound great but what if it’s not safe?

Randall enters in a sweater and suit jacket. He is now fully a “star.” L/3 ”Dr. Randall Mindy. Senior White House Science Advisor

RANDALL
(very warm and sincere) Right now millions of you are having these same questions and doubts about the approaching comet. That’s why for the next month free of charge, BASH cellular in conjunction with the US Government is offering a free hotline connecting you with experts to answer your questions. As a scientist nothing brings greater comfort than knowledge. And who knows, maybe, just maybe one of our scientists...

The Housewife is already on the phone talking and even smiles a little.

HOUSE WIFE
Thank you Sharon. That makes me

feel so much better.

RANDALL
...can be that friend we all need to lean on during uncertain times.

ANCR (V.O.)
Call 1-800-428-6483 for peace of
mind. Roaming and data charges

apply.

CUT TO:


EXT. ILLINOIS HIGHWAY - DAY

Kate is now in the back of a cargo van sans hood driving along a long four lane highway.
 
107.


INT. UNIVERSITY HALL - DAY

Hundreds of students are doing a sit in at the University President’s office. They chant and hold signs “EARTH ALWAYS HAS FOUR BARS!” “OUR CHILDREN WANT A PLANET NOT 6G! Dr. Oglethorpe speaks into a bullhorn.

DR. OGLETHORPE
I am ashamed that my alma mater still invests in BASH cellular and supports this madness!

STUDENTS
Divest from BASH when?

MORE STUDENTS
NOW! DIVEST NOW!!

Two POLICE OFFICERS take Dr. Oglethorpe away.


INT. WHITE HOUSE PRESS ROOM - DAY

Jason and Randall stand against the back wall as President Orlean fields questions.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Go ahead Vince. Make it quick

please. You always talk so slow.

REPORTER WITH BEARD
How to do you respond to the letter signed by over five thousand international scientists against the mission to harvest the comet?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Sounds like a bunch of scientists
jealous they weren’t chosen to work
on this historic mission. They
didn’t make the cut. They should
quit whining.
(moving on)
You! No, not you. The skinny one.

SKINNY REPORTER
Is there a backup plan if this plan goes wrong?
 
108.


PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Of course there’s a backup plan.
And honestly it’s so strong we
considered making it THE plan but
the one we chose was too good. Dr.

Randall?

RANDALL
The President is correct Christy.
Our back up plan accounts for two
dozen low probability events. The
stakes are too high not to account

for any eventuality.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
At a certain point you just have to
trust us folks. There’s no way

around it. Yes, go.

REPORTER WITH BIG HAIR
This is a question for Dr. Mindy.
Dr. Mindy do you 100% stand behind

the science of this plan?
 


JASON
That’s a dumb question. Why would he be up here if he didn’t!
 



REPORTER WITH BIG HAIR (CONT'D) Can Dr. Mindy answer?

*

 
RANDALL
I do. But science is an ongoing
process of inquiry. And the stakes

are too high to be complacent.


EXT. STYLISH RESTAURANT - NIGHTR

Randall and Brie, both in tasteful designer clothes leave a restaurant. 6 PAPARAZZI and a TMZ REPORTER with a VIDEO CAMERA follow them.

TMZ REPORTER
Hey Dr. Mindy, hey Brie. Are you

guys dating?

BRIE EVANTEE
Our relationship is strictly

professional!

RANDALL
Sorry guys! We’re just friends! I’m

happily married!
 
109.


They get into a BLACK TOWN CAR that drives away.


INT. CVN CABLE NEWS STUDIO - DAY

STORIES ACROSS THE BOTTOM CRAWL: “FAMED MEOW ACTOR ARRESTED FOR POSSESSION OF ILLEGAL FIREARMS AND NARCOTICS” “LADY BAROQUE FACES SOCIAL MEDIA BACKLASH FOR COMMENTS ABOUT POL POT” “NEVER HITTERS CLASH WITH DIGNIFIED BOYS” “COMET DENIER WINS CELEBRITY DANCE OFF”

HARRISON TELMS
Joining us now is Philip Kaj from
Autopsy who has been handicapping
the back and forth on the comet
debate since day one. Philip what

are today’s numbers telling us?

Phillip Kaj is on the feed from the Autopsy offices.

PHILLIP (SOT)
Thanks Harrison. Well the latest Trenk poll show 40% for managing the comet to create jobs. 37% never want the comet to hit, which is down three points, and 23% don’t believe there is a comet at all. And yes that number is way up.

HARRISON TELMS
And why have the Never hitters lost so much ground?

PHILLIP
If you look inside the numbers
their message is just too extreme
for moderates in the Midwest.
Voters don’t want to hear about 7
billion people dying, the whole
food chain collapsing... the sun
being blocked out for years and
years... bringing in a new ice

age...

Philip gets a little lost in the reality.

HARRISON TELMS
What about the Impact Deniers? They seem to be gaining a lot of momentum lately.
 
110.


PHILLIP (SOT)
That’s right Harrison. The Impact Deniers led by Congressman Louie Tenant are tapping into a grassroots anger with the system. Benedict Drask himself just gave a Com-denier speech that has the whole movement buzzing on their website of choice: Dark 9.

CELL PHONE VT: Drask talking to a few hundred people in a park with Tenant and Dr. Ginnerson behind him.

BENEDICT DRASK (SOT)
I got right up there to the edge of space... And I didn’t see anything! And why? Cause there’s nothing up there to see!


EXT. LOWER MIDDLE CLASS ILLINOIS HOME - DUSK

Kate’s van pulls away as snow falls. She goes up to the front door of a modest home and knocks.

Her MOM AND DAD, mid 50s and clearly traumatized by all of this, open the door.

KATE
(breaks down in tears)
Mom... Dad... I’m so glad to be

home...

But they don’t open the door.

KATE (CONT'D)
Open the door...

DAD
No politics. None.

KATE
What do you mean?

MOM
Your Dad and I are for the jobs the comet will provide.

DAD
The division in this country is bad enough. We don’t want it in our house.
 
111.


KATE
But that’s not-

DAD
No politics. That’s the only way

you moving in here will work.

KATE
(truly tired now)

Fine.

They open the door and Kate hugs them. They hug her back.

MOM
I know it’s been hard...


INT. THE WASHINGTON DC HYATT - A FEW NIGHTS LATER

A big, impressive suite with the lights out. We hear laughter and the door opens. It’s Randall, in a tuxedo and Brie Evantee in a stunning gown.

BRIE EVANTEE
...I thought it was the ambassador.

I was flattering him!

RANDALL
Well he was the waiter and now he’s got an ego the size of Texas.

They turn on the lights. JUNE, RANDALL’S WIFE IS ON THE COUCH WITH A BAG OF LUGGAGE NEXT TO HER.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
June. What are you doing-

JUNE
I had a feeling something was going on.

RANDALL
I’m busy. This is important work.

JUNE
Yes it certainly is.

BRIE EVANTEE
Can we just skip past this whole
part please, where you get to be
righteous and we put our tails

between our legs? It’s so boring.
 
112.


JUNE
So you want to skip the part where you feel bad?

BRIE EVANTEE
Oh I don’t feel bad. Randall and I are having a wonderful time. And so there’s only one question: do we keep having a wonderful time or does he go back with you to Michigan?

Beat.

JUNE
You know what? She’s actually

right. That is the only question.

RANDALL
June... I-

JUNE
Well that was fast. But before I go let me give you some instructions on how to take care of Randall-

She comes out of the bathroom holding a bunch of prescription pill bottles.

JUNE (CONT'D)
Here’s the Xanax he takes for his

panic attacks...

She throws the bottle at them, pills fly everywhere.

JUNE (CONT'D)
Here’s the Zoloft he takes to curb the crashing depressions that hit him sometimes...

RANDALL
Actually not as much lately-

She throws the bottle. More pills fly.

JUNE
This is for his blood pressure. Restless Leg Syndrome. Appetite suppressant to counteract appetite gain from his other meds. And yes, a bottle of goddamn Cialis!

The last bottle hits Randall right on the head.
 
113.


JUNE (CONT'D)
Goodbye Randall! I’ll tell your
sons Dad’s fucking the lady on our

television!

The door opens and Dr. Keith Ollens is there.

KEITH OLLENS
Are you ready to go June?

RANDALL
You and Keith. I always knew it.

KEITH OLLENS
Randall, are you serious? You’ve

met my partner Paul a dozen times.

RANDALL
I thought... he was a business

partner.

BRIE EVANTEE
Oh that’s a shame. For a second it seemed like this was all about to work out quite nicely.

JUNE
Let’s go Keith.

They’re gone. Brie rubs Randall’s shoulders.

BRIE EVANTEE
This will feel shitty for about 12 hours and then it will pass. I promise.

Randall’s BASH phone plays the little girl singing Puff the Magic Dragon.

BRIE EVANTEE (CONT'D)
Well that’s sweet.

CUT TO:


EXT. SOUTHERN ILLINOIS TOWN - FEW DAYS LATER.

A town that’s seen better days. Car with a bumper sticker of an American flag with “THESE COLORS DON’T RUN FROM A STUPID COMET!”

A store has a sign “Never Hitters NOT Welcome!” Another store has a heroic picture of President Orlean shooting the comet with a machine gun.
 
114.


Two TEENS in President Orlean’s shirts and/or hats watch a Drask Dark 9 video on their phones.


INT. DRINK-MO STORE - ILLINOIS - CONTINUOUS

Kate, now a cashier at a giant Drink-Mo watches a CVN show hosted by Dalia Hensfield with Teddy Oglethorpe arguing against SENATOR SCOTT LERNER.

SEN. LERNER (SOT)
... Over 200 trillion in wealth
created. Homelessness, water,

healthcare... Fixed worldwide.

DR. OGLETHORPE (SOT)
You know full well that BASH owns
Comet Dibiasky. The people don’t
get one pebble of it even though

we’re footing the bill.

SEN. LERNER (SOT)
Doctor, people are tired of you
Never Hitters and your
divisiveness. Americans want to
harness the comet for its riches
AND make safety a priority by
building sea walls.

DR. OGLETHORPE (SOT)
What about the fact that you’ve
taken over three hundred thousand
dollars in BASH campaign
contributions in the last five

years Senator?

SENATOR LERNER
I’m pro-business Doctor. I’m not a socialist. I have no problem with BASH’s success but I do believe they need to include us in the conversation.

INTERRUPTING VOICE
Excuse me?

A SKATER PUNK, 24 with TWO FRIENDS. One of them wears a MISFITS jacket and they all have stickers and hand drawn stuff on their clothes. The main guy, YULE has half his hair cut off.

YULE
Aren’t you that girl that yelled

“we’re all gonna die” on live TV?
 
115.


KATE
No.
(and then)

What’s your purchase?

YULE
Yes you are.

His friend holds up his phone with Kate on the Daily Rip.

KATE (SOT)
We’re all going to fuckin die!

KATE (CONT'D)
Yup. That’s me.

YULE
You are a stone cold legend. Word

is bond.

FRIEND
I’ve got a sticker of you on my

board.

KATE
Great. What’s your purchase? If you don’t have one you need to make room for the next customer in line.

There’s no next customer.

YULE
You don’t give a shit do you?

KATE
(flat)

Sure I do. I care about the Drink-Mo guarantee of quality service.

Yule holds open his jacket to reveal FOUR BOTTLES OF EXPENSIVE VODKA they’ve shoplifted.

FRIEND
We don’t give a shit either.

OTHER FRIEND
Not one single shit.

KATE
Well good for you.
 
116.


YULE
We hang and board behind the abandoned Burger Champ from seven to whenever. You should come hang.

Yule closes his jacket and they walk away. Kate watches them go but says nothing about the stolen liquor. The TV plays in the background.

ANCHOR 2 (V.O.)
BASH telecom shares are now up a whopping 520% for the year. And in other news the President says the millions of illegal immigrants fleeing Chile and headed to our border will be treated as an invading army...

CUT TO:


EXT. KENNEDY SPACE CENTER - FLORIDA - SAME TIME

INCOMPLETE DRONES WITH DRILLING ARMS AND WARHEADS ON THEM are being wheeled around the massive launch pad.

Randall and President Orlean land in a helicopter and are greeted by Isherwell.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Hello Peter! We are very excited to see these drones everyone is talking about.

PETER ISHERWELL
Hello Janie. Dr. Mindy. We have one entirely completed. It’s quite the marvel.

They walk over to a hangar.

RANDALL
I’ve been meaning to ask you both Peter, Madame President, why won’t you disavow Congressman Tenant and the impact deniers? Millions of people are starting to believe it.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Randall, contrary to popular belief

I don’t control Congressman Tenant.
 
117.


RANDALL
The White House visitor’s log shows he’s met with you four times just this past week.

PETER ISHERWELL
(chuckles lightly)

You’ll have to pardon my amusement but I do love seeing Janie put on the spot.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Randall’s a worrier. He just needs
to start worrying about the right

things.


A giant BEAD DRONE is in front of them in the hangar. An incomplete one is next to it.

PETER ISHERWELL
I give you mankind’s savior. The

Bash Explore and Acquire Drone.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
My oh my. It is something.

RANDALL
Wow. It certainly is.

PETER ISHERWELL
I call this one Primo for first.

He’s my beautiful baby boy.

RANDALL
I have a question. Are you concerned at all about the sync of the phase reactions? I hear there are some questions.

PETER ISHERWELL
There are always questions and
fears Dr. Mindy. But the sort of
vision we’re following doesn’t
wring it hands like a worried

housewife.

RANDALL
It’s just that Dr. Inez showed me
this modeling data that suggests
the sync of the explosions may be

flawed.
 
118.


Randall takes some papers from his jacket. Hands them to Isherwell.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
Apparently debris from the comet
may affect the communication links.
And as you know without proper sync

the mission won’t-

Isherwell hands the papers back to Randall.

PETER ISHERWELL
Sadly Dr. Inez is no longer with
us. It turned out she was
associating with some radical Never

Hitter activists.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Fortunately we didn’t miss a beat.
Former head of NASA Dr. Jocelyn
Calder is now in charge. She gets

the big picture.

RANDALL
It’s just that Dr. Calder is a medical doctor, not a physicist...
and a dozen other scientists have been removed or have resigned from this project for asking questions. This mission has zero margin for error. I need to know you’re acting as a scientist and not a businessman.

Beat. Uh-oh. Wrong thing to say. A hint of anger flashes in Isherwell’s eyes.

PETER ISHERWELL
You’re worried I’m just a

businessman?

RANDALL
I just want to-

PETER ISHERWELL
Do you think you know me Doctor? Do you? BASH has over 40 thousand data points on you and every decision you’ve made since 1994. I can tell you what you’ll buy your son Evan for his birthday in six years.
(MORE)
 
119.

PETER ISHERWELL (CONT'D) I know that right now you have colon polyps that are not an immediate danger, but should be removed in 2-3 years. But most of all I know what you are. My algorithm has identified 8 consumer profile types. You are a Lifestyle Idealist. You think you are motivated by beliefs but you just run from pain and towards pleasure. You’ll take a stand when it’s safe but ultimately you chose the path life conveniently provides. Like a field mouse.

He gets right in Randall’s face.

PETER ISHERWELL (CONT'D) Our algorithms can even predict how you’ll die with up to 96% accuracy. I looked you up after we first met. Your death was so unremarkable... I can’t even remember what it said.

He steps back.

RANDALL
(almost in a whisper)
I just want the science to be

sound.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
How will I die Peter? I’d like to

know.

PETER ISHERWELL
You’ll be smothered. In 4 years. By a friend. Now if you’ll excuse me, there’s much work to be done.



He walks away and greets Dr. Calder in the distance.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
What the fuck was that?

RANDALL
I’m trying to do my job.
 
120.


PRESIDENT ORLEAN
You’re lucky Peter adores you.
Otherwise you’d be on an
unregistered plane to a black site

facility 1 minute ago.

President Orlean lights up a cigarette with a GIANT: “HIGHLY FLAMMABLE” warning sign behind her.

RANDALL
I wouldn’t-

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
You are with the grown-ups now
Randall. These are hard but
necessary decisions. Stop
grandstanding like a teenager and
step the hell up. Goodbye
sweetheart.

She kisses him on the cheek, throws her lit cig and walks away.

Randall steps out the cig and then looks up to see Orlean joining Peter Isherwell and Dr. Calder. He looks down at the report he’s holding in his hand.

CUT TO:


EXT. OLD BURGER KING PARKING LOT - THAT NIGHT

About a dozen kids ages 16-25 are skateboarding and drinking with music blaring.

MUSIC: EKULU’s “The Ruminator”

Yule passes the bottle of vodka over to Kate who takes a hard swig.

YULE
I heard today on the corporate owned news BASH got Orlean to pay Chile 90 billion for the tsunamis that are gonna wreck that country. And their shady ass President took it.

FRIEND from the Drink-Mo chugs a beer.

FRIEND
You know Isherwell built an underground bunker for him and all his executives.
 
121.


TEEN GIRL
No, I heard they’re building an
escape ship. Them and all their
rich friends’ll just fly off and

start a whole other earth.

SHORT GUY
You gotta stop listening to your

uncle. He’s on Meth.

TEEN GIRL
No he’s not. He just drinks a lot

of Red Bull and reads a lot.

YULE
I don’t think the thing’s even
gonna hit. Orlean just scared us
all so she could get her approval

ratings up.

Kate takes another swig of vodka.

KATE
You want to know the real truth?

Everyone quiets.

KATE (CONT'D)
They’re not even smart enough to be as evil as you’re giving them credit for.

FRIENDS
Damnnn... ain't that the truth...

Sad but true.

Yule, clearly enamored, leans over and kisses Kate. She pushes him back.

KATE
Nope.

Yule punches the air in frustration.

YULE
Ahhh!! You make me crazy!!

Beat.

KATE
Fuck it. Why not.

They make out as the hardcore plays and some kids break old light tubes.
 
122.


EXT. SPACE - SAME TIME

POV from the comet moving towards a small blinking blue/green planet in the distance.


INT. MAKEUP ROOM - THE DAILY RIP - TWO DAYS LATER

CU of Randall’s face as makeup is being applied and hair is being styled. For the first time in a while he looks anxious. We hear the show from the monitor.

JACK BREMMER (O.C.)
The movie will be released the day that some believe Comet Dibiasky will impact the planet. And early word is it’s a classic.

BRIE EVANTEE (O.C.) What a stellar cast. I always love Devin Peters. What’s it called again?


INT. THE DAILY RIP STUDIO - CONTINUOUS

Show is in progress with Brie and Jack hosting.

JACK BREMMER
It’s called “Total Devastation.” It cost 300 million dollars. And my friend Farley saw it and says it’s a ton of fun.

BRIE EVANTEE
Coming up in the next hour: We’ll do a deep dive on the tragic descent of the “Meow man” Pete Cintell into drugs and depression. Such a shame. But first, and you can tell by my smile, Dr. Randall is here.

Randall seems tense and awkward. The studio lights somehow brighter.

JACK BREMMER
Dr. Randall. How are you sir?

RANDALL
I’m good. Gooder... than good!

Tiny awkward beat.
 
123.


BRIE EVANTEE
So Randall, we’re hearing there’s no comet, that there is a comet but it’s a good thing, or maybe it’s a bad thing. Please help us oh wise scientist. You’re our only hope.

She winks at him with her upstage eye.

RANDALL
Well... uh...first and foremost, there most certainly is a comet. There are, of course, many conspiracy theories out there, so people need to check their sources and be careful where we get our information...

JACK BREMMER
Are you okay Doc?

RANDALL
(trying to cover)
I’m fine... I just... Well, let's
just say it's not a good idea to
eat airport sushi before going on

national television...

Tepid laughs from the crew.

BRIE EVANTEE
Dr. Randall, our viewers are dying to know how the mission is going. We know you're involved with every detail. Plus you're so darn cute.

RANDALL
Thank you. The truth is there's been growing concern out there in the scientific community that our peer review process has not been --


JACK BREMMER
(Keeping the energy up)

Well, if BASH's stock price is any indicator, it seems to be going gangbusters. And I'm not going to lie. I bought a few shares myself.

BRIE EVANTEE
You are such a shameless

capitalist, Jack!
 
124.


JACK BREMMER
Guilty as charged! But you'll be
the first one in the new hot tub

I'm putting in on my back deck.

BRIE EVANTEE
He knows me too well. Are you okay,

Dr. Randall?

RANDALL
I don’t feel so well...

BRIE EVANTEE
Okay...Well, we’re going to go to a

commercial and come back--

RANDALL
DON’T CUT AWAY!

BRIE EVANTEE
(sotto voice)

What are you doing love?

JACK BREMMER
You heard the man. He had some bad sushi.

RANDALL
I just have to say something.

JACK BREMMER
(laughing)

Well fortunately this is a show where we say things. Some say I say too much! But it pays the bills.

RANDALL
CAN YOU PLEASE STOP BEING SO

FUCKING PLEASANT!

Everyone goes quiet.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
Not everything has to be

charming...or clever...or likable ...We have to, we just have to, be able to hear things...bad things or confusing things...They're called facts for a reason! Facts don't always feel good. Or sell insurance. Or phones. And they don't always make you feel safe...This is NOT A DEBATE!

(MORE)
 
125.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
There is a huge fucking comet
headed this way. It's real, and it
doesn't give a goddamn what you

think.

BRIE EVANTEE
But the President and Isherwell said that maybe we can benefit from the rare miner-

RANDALL
They're fucking lying! The science
is not sound! And when scientists
speak up they fire them! The fact
is we don't really know how to
bring a comet the size of a
mountain down to Earth. We just
don't! They should have deflected
it, and we had the chance, but we
didn't do it! And I'm not saying
this because I'm on one side or
another. I'm not a radical or a
moderate; I'm not here to get
clicks or likes or whatever... I'm
just telling you the observed
science. And I'm sure everyone's
going to think I'm taking a
"stance" and that I'm too
"extreme." But I'm just like all of
you...I hope to GOD this
Administration is right, that
they're not blinded by wealth or
their political party. I hope to
GOD I'm wrong on this, I really do,
but the truth is, I think they've
completely lost the fucking
plot...I used to think that people
who actually studied and learned
things for a living had some value
or worth in our culture...And I
just want to go home. More than
anything. But I can't sit here for
one more second and act like a
fucking salesman. We must first
AGREE that this comet is real,
first and foremost, and you know
why? Because we all saw it with our
own goddamn eyes through a goddamn
telescope! And if you people can't
acknowledge at the bare minimum
that a giant comet about to slam
into us at 116,000 miles per hour
is not a GOOD thing, then what the
hell happened to us?
(MORE)
 
126.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
I mean, honest to God. What have we done to ourselves? And how do we fix it? I don't know...if there's one thing that I pray you all remember from anything I've said it's this: We must, every one of us, immediately start to--

Randall sees the Meow commercial playing on the studio monitors.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
What the hell?

BRIE EVANTEE
We cut you off and went to commercial a long time ago, honey.


EXT. STUDIO - MOMENTS LATER

Randall is in the back of an FBI unmarked sedan with a HOOD OVER HIS HEAD. Brie Evantee gets in the back seat.

BRIE EVANTEE
Why did you do that? I really liked you. And I despise most people.

RANDALL
I was in love with you.

BRIE EVANTEE
You were?	Wow.

STOCKY FBI AGENT gets behind the wheel.

STOCKY FBI AGENT
Ma’am. You need to go. We need to

get this man off the grid.

Beat as Brie stares at the hooded Randall.

RANDALL
Are you still there?

BRIE EVANTEE
No.

She gets out. The car pulls away.


INT. THE MINDY HOUSE - LANSING - THE NEXT DAY

An unseen person watches the news. CVN with Harrison Telms.
 
127.


HARRISON TELMS (SOT) In breaking news, Federal Prosecutors are considering pressing charges against disgraced scientist Randall Mindy after uncovering evidence he is connected to a radical Never Hitter group-

There is a knock at the door.

REVEAL JUNE, RANDALL’S WIFE walking to the door.

Randall is there looking like hell.

RANDALL
Please June. Can we just talk for-

Without saying a word SHE CLOSES THE DOOR AND WALKS AWAY.

HARRISON TELMS (SOT) Recent polling now shows 42% convinced there is no comet at all. And 7% believing that the comet is a promotional stunt for the Devin Peters movie Total Devastation...

June turns off the TV.

CUT TO:


EXT. ROOF OF A CLOSED BURGER KING - TWO NIGHTS LATER

Kate and Yule lay on the roof looking at the stars with a six pack.

KATE
I mean maybe he just gets off on
power. Any kind of power. Whether
it’s being a General or charging
people a lot of money for free

snacks.

YULE
I don’t know but I bet all of this comet stuff is nothing. My Dad said it’s just like Y2K.

KATE
It’s definitely coming. I saw it.

YULE
How do you know what you saw?
 
128.


KATE
Because I was an astronomer. I used coordinates and a map of the solar system and equations.

YULE
I don’t know... You can say that but at the end of the day you were looking through a tube at the sky.

KATE
So you’re an impact denier? Wow.

Fortunately I don’t give a shit...

YULE
Besides, only God can destroy the

earth.

KATE
You believe in God?

YULE
My parents are evangelicals. So yeah... I guess I do. Even though I hate them. I don’t go around advertising it though. I mean, don’t tell anyone.

KATE
It’s okay. I won’t. It’s actually
kind of sweet.
(then)

When I was 9 years old my Dad took me to a seafood chain restaurant and I asked him if there was a God... and he mouthed “no.”

YULE
That’s terrible.

KATE
I thought it was cool at the time.

Now I don’t know.

She takes a pull of her beer.

YULE
Wanna make out?

KATE
Yeah, why not?
 
129.


YULE
Can you not say “why not” before we kiss every time. It’s kind of shitty.

KATE
Sure. Whatever.

YULE
That’s better.

They kiss. And while they do Kate looks up in the sky and sees something... A twinkle.

KATE
Oh my God...

She pushes him off.

KATE (CONT'D)
That’s it! That’s the comet right

there!

YULE
Where?

KATE
See? That’s the big dipper. That’s Venus. There’s the north star. Well what is that?


EXT. EAST LANSING BUSY ROAD - SAME TIME

Randall is in a crappy Honda driving with a WHIP (UBER) LIGHT on his dashboard. Suddenly he sees something above him and STOPS HIS CAR.

RANDALL
What the hell?

Cars honk AS RANDALL GETS OUT AND LOOKS UP AT THE NIGHT SKY.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
There you are. There you are!

He sees the twinkling comet.


EXT. ABANDONED BURGER KING ROOF - CONTINUOUS

YULE
So that’s really it?... God... I

just got really scared.
 
130.


KATE
Exactly!

She takes out her phone and dials.

YULE
Who are you calling?


EXT. BUSY EAST LANSING ROAD - SAME TIME

Cars are honking at Randall. He is dialing Kate.
	RANDALL		KATE
Kate?! You can see it!	Randall! You can see it!!
				


DIDDLY FEED

A video with Kate and Randall talking right into camera is being re-diddled like crazy. 100k shares... 1 mill...5 mill

KATE (SOT)
Just go into your yard or on your
roof or on the sidewalk and just

look up north in the sky...

RANDALL (SOT)
...and then a little bit east if you’re in the northwestern hemisphere. It looks like a streak, that’s the comet’s tail.

KATE (SOT)
It’s real and it’s coming. Anyone who says otherwise is full of shit. Trust your eyes.


MORE VIDEOS

OTHER VIDEOS FROM AROUND THE WORLD ARE POSTED IN MANDARIN, FARSI, SPANISH AND on Diddly, Vroom Vroom, Friend Post.

FRENCH REPORTER
For the first time, Comet Dibiasky is visible to the naked eye in the night sky. This dramatic sight, is causing widespread concern and chaos around the globe. Today in Paris 100s of thousands of people took to the street demanding action to divert the comet.

The commercial ACTOR from the Meow commercials pops up.
 
131.


MEOW ACTOR (SOT)
I refused to do more “meow”
commercials because it typecast me
and ruined my career... I’ve been
in a deep depression. But if this
gets a 100 thousand shares I’ll do
it! Just look up!

Hearts, thumbs up, thumbs down, shares, smiley faces are clicked and dinged as comments and articles shoot around the world: “Holy shit. It’s real.” “I just see a twinkle. So what?” “Autopsy: President Orlean Plays Defense on the Comet” “Anyone else shitting themselves?” “This is more Never Hitter Lies!”




STOCK FOOTAGE: VT. MASSIVE STREET PROTEST IN PARIS. CROWD CHANTING “JUST LOOK UP!”


EXT. CHINESE PARK - DAY

Three OLDER CHINESE MEN look at their phones.


INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

A TEENAGER looks at his phone with a fish tank and heavy metal poster behind him.


EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

10 PEOPLE yell into a cell phone.

PEOPLE
Just Look Up!


INT. MOVIE JUNKET SET - DAY

DEVIN PETERS talks to an ENTERTAINMENT JOURNALIST with a TOTAL DEVASTATION poster behind him.

ENTERTAINMENT JOURNALIST First off I saw an early cut of the movie and it is quite a ride!

DEVIN PETERS
Thank you so much. It was quite a

ride making it, that’s for sure.
 
132.


ENTERTAINMENT JOURNALIST Now I know a lot of Hollywood is supporting the Just Look Up movement but I haven’t seen a pin like that.

DEVIN PETERS
Yeah, this pin points up and it
points down. Because this country
needs to stop arguing and “virtue

signaling” and just get along.

ENTERTAINMENT JOURNALIST That is sooo refreshing. I think we’re all tired of the politics.

DEVIN PETERS
That’s why we made Total

Devastation. For everyone to enjoy.


INT. MEOW GUY’S HOUSE - DAY

The commercial actor is back.

ACTOR (SOT)
... Meooow?

More likes, shares, retweets, thumbs up, positive comments.


INT. CVN STUDIO - NIGHT

Harrison Telms hosts his show.

HARRISON TELMS
They’re calling it the biggest
worldwide music event ever. The
Just Look Up concert will be held
in Wembley stadium with artists
including Jason Dak, Three Ton
Credit Card Tray and Riley Bina
expected to perform. Bina has
become a big supporter of the Just
Look Up movement. No word on
whether or not her ex-fiance DJ

Chello will appear.


INT. KIDS SHOW STUDIO - DAY

Randall is with SAMMY the puppet.
 
133.


SAMMY PUPPET
But we’re all going to be okay

right Dr. Randy?

RANDALL
Well Sammy, even though I’m an astronomer, sometimes I learn new things. And what I’m currently learning, is that unchecked power, and extreme wealth, distorts people’s view of reality. And that’s what happened to our leaders. And if we don’t wake up fast, every single one of us is going to die.

PUPPETEER
Um, that wasn’t what you said in

rehearsal...


INT. PATRIOT NEWS STUDIO - DAY

Randall arguing with Congressman Tenant as Dan Pawketty hosts. He’s not smooth anymore. He’s fiery.

RANDALL
But the comet is visible Congressman. And there are serious questions about the science behind this BASH mission. We need full transparency or else President Orlean needs to be removed.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
See Dan, this is what these “Just
Look Uppers” do. They want to
control everyone. Tell em where to

look. How to look. How to think.

DAN PAWKETTY
It’s a fair point Doctor. What

about freedom?

RANDALL
Wow. I just realized you really believe what you’re saying. That’s truly terrifying.
(changes gears)
Congressman can I ask you a
question?

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
Sure hot shot. Fire away.
 
134.


RANDALL
Who is Sir Isaac Newton?

DAN PAWKETTY
Now come on Doctor. I think-

Teddy watches from the studio floor.

RANDALL
Hold on Dan. Let him answer. Who is he Congressman?

The Congressman looks frozen. He still doesn’t know.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
Well look now... I could ask you

some stuff too...

Dan Pawketty is confused by the Congressman’s hemming and hawing.

DAN PAWKETTY
Congressman... Just answer him. Who

is Sir Isaac Newton?

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
Well he’s that fella. The one....
That sings the... Rocketman. And

the Candle in the Wind.

DAN PAWKETTY
Wait. Do you mean Sir Elton John?

Are you putting me on?

The Congressman stands up, rips off his mic and leaves.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
I’ve got a bad connection over here

Dan, sorry!

Teddy has a tear coming down his cheek.

DR. OGLETHORPE
(to himself)

That comet could strike me dead now and I’d die happy...


INT. RALLY IN GIANT BASKETBALL STADIUM - NIGHT

President Orlean is on stage. Speaking to a crowd of 20 thousand supporters.
 
135.


PRESIDENT ORLEAN
You know why they want us to look up? Because they want us to be afraid! Because they think they’re better than us! They do!

CROWD
Boooooo!!!!

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
That’s right. But when you walk the
road of freedom, the road of jobs
and God, you don’t look up. You
keep your eyes down on that path
and you put one foot in front of
the other, step by step, each and
every day! And you don’t do it for
promotions or a big paycheck, you
do it because that’s what Americans

do!

CLOSE UPS of chanting faces young and old.

CROWD
DON’T LOOK UP! DON’T LOOK UP!

Someone hands Orlean a red, white and blue hat with “Don’t Look Up!” written on it. She puts it on.

CROWD (CONT'D)
DON’T LOOK UP! DON’T LOOK UP!


INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Three GUYS in “Don’t Look Up” hats yell into a cell phone.

3	GUYS
Don’t Look Up!


EXT. STADIUM - NIGHT

Randall and Kate speak into the mic to 120 THOUSAND FANS CHEERING.

RANDALL
Hello! I’m Randall Mindy.

KATE
And I’m Kate Dibiasky.

The crowd cheers.
 
136.


RANDALL
How great were Velcro Jesus and
Pootchie Q?
(applause)

They told us a billion people are watching this concert. So we just wanna say to all of you loud and clear...there is no safe way to bring this comet back to Earth, and exploit it for profit! It cannot be done!

The fact is, we have tried to work with this administration, but they didn’t listen. They didn’t listen to us, or the thousands of scientists who have objected to this insane mission. So who are you going to stand with: the scientific community, or a dictatorship and a corrupt corporation?

KATE
We need national strikes now. Shut down the economy until President Orlean is impeached, and the BASH mission is taken over by sane individuals. And throw your BASH phones into the toilet!

RANDALL
Look it's real simple. Unless we wake up, as a wise woman once said, "We’re all going to fucking die." This administration is risking billions of lives with their autocratic new world ideology! It’s time we LOOK UP to reality, we LOOK UP to science, and we LOOK UP to the fact, that this government has put profit above the lives of the people!

Cheering. Lights come up. Crowd goes crazy. Riley Bina is there with her band in a stunning outfit.

THEY KICK INTO AN ORIGINAL SONG “JUST LOOK UP.”

DJ Chello enters the stage on the mic.

DJ CHELLO
Hey baby. It’s me and I want you
back. I’ve been a stone cold

fool...
 
137.


The crowd goes crazy as he spits rhymes and he and Rina reunite.


INT. BATHROOM - DAY

A BASH phone is thrown into a toilet by an ACTIVIST WOMAN in her 20s who then turns to camera (another non-BASH phone).

ACTIVIST WOMAN
Screw BASH! And screw Orlean!


INT. MAKEUP ROOM AT A TV STUDIO	- DAY

President Orlean is getting makeup put on while watching Randall and Kate at the Riley Bina concert on her phone.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Son of a bitch.

She calls someone.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D) Don’t call me Mommy. That’s gross. Let Tenant know we need to step up our attacks on the Professor and Marianne. They’re starting to make some real noise... No, if you throw them in Guantanamo they’ll become, what’d you call it? Martyrs. Let the crazies do the work for us.


INT. BEDROOM - DAY

A ME-TUBER in a “Don’t Look Up” hat spews conspiracy theories and attacks Randall and Kate with crazy accusations.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Three police officers subdue a man and a woman, 20s, in JUST LOOK UP shirts and regalia and arrest them.


INT. KATE’S DIET APP

CLOSE UP of KATE’S DIET APP countdown showing 5 days, 3 hours, 48 minutes and 11 seconds until diet ends.
 
138.


INT. UPSCALE RESTAURANT - DAY

Randall and Kate sit across from Senator Lerner.

SENATOR LERNER
I am truly disgusted by the
President embracing these lunatic

anti-comet theories.

RANDALL
Well that is SO good to hear. Now we need to impeach President Orlean immediately and take control of the mission to fragment the comet not mine it.

KATE
And we need every nation in the
world to launch their nuclear
weapons as well. It’s too late to
completely stop the comet but we

can still save billions of lives.

SENATOR LERNER
I completely agree. That’s why we’re proposing legislation that will provide incentives to sea wall companies and funding for middle class families to build bunkers.

RANDALL
That’s it? Incentives?

KATE
Do you understand we have no time?

None.

SENATOR LERNER
Look the idea of impeachment polls very poorly. We have to be practical here. This isn’t a time for purity tests. Would either of you be willing to host a fundraiser so we can take on Orlean?

RANDALL
Let’s get out of here. This is a

waste of time.


EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

People run back and forth as sirens blare in front of a wall of “Just Look Up” posters covered in graffiti.
 
139.


INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Kate speaks into a cell phone.

KATE
We’ve got to shut down the economy. Shut down the corrupt governments. This is life and death. Throw your BASH phones away. Delete your Vroom Vroom accounts. If your news is trying to act like there are two sides to this turn it off! The death of 7 billion people is not a legitimate point of view! It’s fucking insane!


MONTAGE:

MASSIVE WORLDWIDE PROTESTS in Tokyo, New York, Mumbai, Kinshasa, Madrid, Sidney, Moscow. Crowds, banners, police spraying people with hoses and tear gas.

HUGE CACOPHONY OF SOUNDS, voices, screams, social media ALL CUT OFF BY A PHONE BEING HUNG UP.


INT. JUST LOOK UP HEADQUARTERS - 3 DAYS LATER

Teddy has just hung up the phone. A grim look on his face.

KATE
What’s wrong?

DR. OGLETHORPE
Orlean and BASH cut Russia, India, and China out of the rights for the minerals. So they tried their own deflection mission. But approximately 40 minutes ago a massive explosion was detected at the Russian’s Baikonur launch complex. It looks like the mission failed.

Quick cut to VT: HELICOPTER FOOTAGE OF A GIANT CLOUD OVER A RUSSIAN BASE.

The bustling office goes quiet.

RANDALL
Then that’s it.
 
140.


KATE
Wait, what do you mean “that’s it?”

RANDALL
It’s over.

KATE
What are you talking about?

DR. OGLETHORPE
It’s simple physics. Force,
distance and velocity. Randall’s

right. It’s over.


EXT. DON’T LOOK UP RALLY - GREAT LAWN, D.C. - THAT NIGHT

Congressman Tenant with Dan Pawketty, Jason Orlean, and KID ROCK (look alike) speak to a giant crowd wearing the “Don’t Look Up” red, white and blue caps.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT These “Just Look Uppers” want millions of illegals to come across the border!

DAN PAWKETTY
You want to know my opinion? They want no borders and no laws folks! That’s a fact!

CROWD
Boooo!!!!

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
They think science is more powerful than God!

DAN PAWKETTY
The Just Look Uppers want to tell you what to do! Because they think you can’t think for yourself! Well I want you to boo them and then chant Don’t Look Up! Do it now!

CLOSE UP OF booing people’s faces with Don’t Look Up hats on.

CROWD
BOOOOO!!!!
(chants break out)

DON’T LOOK UP! DON’T LOOK UP!
 
141.


CRANE ARM DOWN to one LOYAL SUPPORTER, early 20s in camo and a Don’t Look Up hat, as he looks back up over his shoulder for JUST A SECOND.

LOYAL SUPPORTER
What?
(and then louder)

What the hell is that!?

Crowd hushes and starts to turn around and look up.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
Alright now, settle down

everyone... What’s going on?

In the sky is a GIANT GLOWING BALL a fifth the size of the moon.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT (CONT'D)
Jesus... What the hell is that?

DAN PAWKETTY
Oh shit.

Crowd starts to murmur. Jason runs up to the mic.

JASON
People! Listen! It’s okay! Yes,
that’s the comet but we have a

plan!

A BOTTLE HITS JASON in the head cutting him and knocking him down. More bottles and caps start to rain down.

JASON (CONT'D)
You stupid hicks! You cut my face!


EXT. HIGHWAY - TWO DAYS LATER

Randall, Kate and Yule drive back to the Midwest. The highway is completely empty.

YULE
There’s no cars.

RANDALL
Everyone’s watching the BASH

launch.

KATE
And what are we doing again?
 
142.


RANDALL
I already told you. We are going

grocery shopping.


INT. BASH LAUNCH CENTER - SAME TIME

President Orlean, Jason and Peter Isherwell in the command center. The FLIGHT DIRECTOR calls out the launch.

FLIGHT DIRECTOR
We have clear skies and are a go

for the BEAD launch.

President Orlean puts on her head set.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Citizens of the world. Now we usher
in a new era of economic
opportunity for the world. May God
bless you all. Except for France

and the UK. And India.


INT. SUPERMARKET - MICHIGAN - SAME TIME

Randall, Kate and Yule are grocery shopping.

KATE
But I still don’t understand why

we’re-

RANDALL
Look at this. I think this salmon
is real salmon. Not farm raised.
(and then)
Kate can you find some sweet

potatoes?

Yule shoves a steak in his pants.


INT. LOWER MIDDLE CLASS HOME - GEORGIA - DUSK

A family of 5 watches TV with a grim seriousness. The comet is visible in the day sky and is huge.

ANCHORS (V.O.)
The BEADS are a go for launch...
There’s not as much excitement as
the last launch. Just a quiet
trepidation... I can hear people

saying prayers in the crowd.
 
143.


FLIGHT DIRECTOR (V.O.)
10, 9, 8...


INT. HOME IN NAIROBI - DAY

A FAMILY watches grimly on their LAPTOP.


EXT. THE MINDY HOME - LANSING MICHIGAN - DAY

Randall with Kate and Yule behind him carrying lots of groceries approach his family home. He knocks.


INT. BASH LAUNCH CENTER - MOMENTS LATER

FLIGHT DIRECTOR
Liftoff!

Monitors show the BEAD drones flames under tail lifting off.
One screen shows a drone explode.

JASON
What just happened?

FLIGHT DIRECTOR
We’ve lost BEAD number 12.

Another MISSION TECH yells out from across the room.

MISSION TECH
BEAD number 22 failed to launch.

PETER ISHERWELL
It’s fine. We anticipated a margin of error. We’re fine everyone!


INT. CVN STUDIO - SAME TIME

Harrison Telms reports on the launch.

HARRISON TELMS
We’re being told that several of the BEADS have exploded on launch. But the mission is still proceeding. A NASA spokesperson when asked to comment referred us to a BASH spokesperson who told us that BASH is committed to customer service, affordable monthly plans and the survival of mankind.
 
144.


EXT. BASH LAUNCH CENTER - CONTINUOUS

The drone satellites tear towards the heavens.


INT. THE MINDY HOME - LANSING MICHIGAN - MOMENTS LATER

June answers the door and sees Randall.

RANDALL
Hi. I thought we could have a family dinner. We got a turkey and some salmon.

Randall’s sons are inside in the living room watching the launch.
EVAN	MARSHALL
Hey Dad!	Hey it’s Dad! Dad!
Long beat as June considers.	

JUNE
When we dated in college I fucked

Aaron Tran.

Randall stands firm. Finally June opens the door.

YULE
I’m Yule. You, uh, may know me by

my Twitch handle FirePuma142.

KATE
Odds are super low she knows you by

FirePuma142.

Randall hugs June for a long time.

RANDALL
I’m so sorry...


EXT. DEEP SPACE - TWO HOURS LATER

The BEAD drones approach the comet.

FLIGHT DIRECTOR (V.O.)
BEADS are ready for attachment...

The BEADS spread out and their hooked drill arm extends. TWO MORE OF THE BEADS FAIL TO ATTACH and spin away from the comet into each other EXPLODING.
 
145.


FLIGHT DIRECTOR (V.O.)
BEADS 8 and 27 are lost due to

lateral control malfunction.


INT. THE MINDY HOME - LANSING MICHIGAN - SAME TIME

Turkey is being put in the oven. Stuffing made. Kate is putting a dry rub on the Salmon. Yule is dicing carrots.

There’s a knock at the door and Teddy pops in holding a bottle of wine.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Heyyyy everyone! Sorry I’m late.

Randall embraces him. June says hello.


INT. BASH LAUNCH CENTER - AN HOUR LATER

PUSH IN on Isherwell, President Orlean, Jason all stressed.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
We’re six drones down now. Can this still work?

PETER ISHERWELL
Engineers assured me that yes. 24

drones are enough.

JASON
How many more can we lose?

Isherwell doesn’t answer.


INT. THE MINDY HOME - LANSING MICHIGAN - SAME TIME

Dinner is cooking. Randall’s sons and Teddy watch news coverage in the living room.


EXT. SPACE - 20 MINUTES LATER

Remaining BEAD drones are attached.

FLIGHT DIRECTOR (V.O.)
Commence simultaneous explosive

separation stage...

This is it. The BEADS EXPLODE IN A GIANT FLASH
 
146.


INT. THE MINDY HOME - LANSING MICHIGAN

A beautiful turkey and salmon, carrots etc. on the table. The Mindys and Kate, Yule and Teddy all take their seats.

DR. OGLETHORPE
This looks beautiful.

JUNE
It certainly does. And it is nice

to have you home.

KATE
Yeah. Randall got really famous.

RANDALL
Is that what happened?

June and Randall kiss.


INT. BASH LAUNCH CENTER - MISSION CONTROL - AN HOUR LATER

Everyone is super tense.

FLIGHT DIRECTOR
Still waiting for a full status

report on the explosive devices.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
(just to Isherwell)
Chinese President just texted me.

The comet is still whole.

FLIGHT DIRECTOR
We’re seeing four misfires and sync was off...

PETER ISHERWELL
It’s okay. We’ll be fine. If you’ll excuse me. I’m going to the restroom.

Isherwell leaves the room.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
I should go too...

She also leaves.


INT. MINDY DINING ROOM - MICHIGAN - 20 MINUTES LATER

Kate looks out the window at the sky.
 
147.


KATE
It’s still there.

RANDALL
I don’t want to talk about any of that anymore. Let’s just enjoy this meal together.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Best idea I’ve heard in a long

time.

JUNE
Should we go around and all say

what we’re thankful for?

RANDALL
Absolutely.


INT. CVN STUDIO - SAME TIME

Harrison Telms reports.

HARRISON TELMS
We are being told that the comet is still whole. A few pieces have broken off as a result of the explosion but the comet is still intact.

A few CREW MEMBERS RUN past camera.

HARRISON TELMS (CONT'D) It’s clear now that for the past six months we have, I have, not done my job. I just never imagined. I never imagined... this. And I should have...

He walks off. The set is empty.


EXT. BASH LAUNCH CENTER - SAME TIME

TWO HELICOPTERS LEAVE THE SPACE CENTER.

ANCHORS (V.O.)
The BEAD drones did not break apart the comet. I repeat did not...
We’re being told the Presidential helicopter has left Kennedy Space Center... The comet is still moving at a great velocity-
 
148.


EXT.	NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

Frightened neighbors video with their phones the comet in the sky.


INT. MINDY DINING ROOM - MICHIGAN - MOMENTS LATER

Everyone at the table has joined hands and are giving thanks.

RANDALL
I’m thankful to be with the woman I love and my beautiful sons again. Honestly... I’m just so thankful.

DR. OGLETHORPE
I’m thankful I got to know you fine people. I truly am.

KATE
I’m thankful...
(long beat)

At least we tried.

Beat.

RANDALL
Do we say Amen? I’m not the most

religious guy.

YULE
I got this.

(into a beautiful prayer) Dearest Father and almighty creator, we ask for your grace despite our pride, your forgiveness despite our doubt and most of all, your love to sooth our fears in these dark times. May we face your divine will with courage and open hearts of acceptance. In your name... Amen.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Damn. Yule’s got some church game.

KATE
That was... beautiful.


INT. BASH LAUNCH CENTER - MOMENTS LATER

The Flight Director turns to where the President should be.
Only Jason is there.
 
149.


FLIGHT DIRECTOR
Sir? Where is the President? We
need to know what the mission

status is.

JASON
She’ll be back.

A Command Tech stands up.

COMMAND TECH
Screw this! I’m going to see my

husband!

He runs out. Some other people start to run out too.


INT. THE MINDY HOME - LANSING MICHIGAN - MOMENTS LATER

Teddy is on the phone in the kitchen.

DR. OGLETHORPE
I just wanted to tell you and the kids that I’ve never stopped loving you. But I understand why you stopped loving me- What’s that?....
Really?... Well it means everything for me to hear that baby. Everything...

CUT TO:


EXT. NEW YORK CITY - OVERHEAD - 20 MINUTES LATER

We pan over New York City which is in chaos. Traffic, fires, violence, sex, etc.


INT. PRESIDENTIAL HELICOPTER - SAME TIME

President Orlean is on her satellite phone.


INT. THE MINDY DINING ROOM - MICHIGAN - CONTINUOUS

Randall moves towards their phone. INTERCUT

RANDALL
I got it!

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Hello. I had to call your home
line.

(MORE)
 
150.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D) Cell service is down everywhere. How about that? Land lines win in the end.

RANDALL
We’re sort of eating right now

Janie.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
There’s a ship.
(let’s it sit there)

In case we were wrong. And clearly we were wrong.

RANDALL
Of course you have a ship.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
It holds 600. It has state of the art cryo-chambers and it’s set to find the nearest earth like planet in a goldilocks zone. I don’t know why I’m calling you but I am. There’s room for you and one other.
Brie, your wife. Your call.

RANDALL
I think I’m good. But you and Jason enjoy your new world.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Jason?


INT. BASH LAUNCH CENTER - CONTINUOUS

Jason is still seated. The control center is almost empty.
The Flight Director turns to Jason.

JASON
She’s coming back.

FLIGHT DIRECTOR
I’m sorry. I’ve got a 20-year-old

daughter I have to see.

He bolts. Jason is alone.

JASON
She’s coming back.
 
151.


INT. MANHATTAN BAR - SAME TIME

Jack sits drinking a giant tumbler of tequila at an empty bar with chairs knocked over and the bar mirror cracked.

Brie enters looking disheveled. Jack pours her a drink. She downs it.

JACK BREMMER
Wanna have sex... or pray?

BRIE EVANTEE
Honestly I’d rather just drink and talk shit about people.

JACK BREMMER
That sounds perfect. What do you think of that new junior executive network hired?

BRIE EVANTEE
Clueless and obedient. The perfect hire. Like a blank eyed mule.

JACK BREMMER
She’ll be VP of content in a year.


INT. AUTOPSY OFFICES- SAME TIME - NIGHT

Phillip is checking his Diddly account on his computer where his piece “Pray, Have Sex or Murder: What’s the Best Way to Greet the End of the World?” is getting thousands and thousands of hearts and shares.

PHILLIP

PHILLIP (CONT'D)
Hey everyone! My piece is going

viral!

He looks around and the place is empty.

PHILLIP (CONT'D)
Is anyone here?!



EXT. PLANET EARTH - 30 MINUTES LATER

The COMET BEGINS ENTERING EARTH’S ATMOSPHERE WITH INCREDIBLE VELOCITY (30 THOUSAND FEET A SECOND). Violent RIPPLES SPREAD OUT and a bright light flares from the FIRE CREATED BY THE FRICTION OF ITS ENTRY.
 
152.


INT. MINDY DINING ROOM - MICHIGAN - CONTINUOUS

Everyone is enjoying dessert. The HOUSE IS NOW SHUDDERING.

MARSHALL
I’m going to have some more of that apple pie. It’s really good.

KATE
It’s actually store bought.

DR. OGLETHORPE
If I’m being really honest, which at this moment why not, I like the junky taste of store bought better than homemade.

RANDALL
Oh no. Teddy. That’s crazy.

Homemade is the best.

JUNE
I know what he means. It’s a childhood memory thing or something-


EXT. OPEN SKY - CONTINUOUS

THE COMET RIPS THROUGH THE SKY LIKE FABRIC BEING TORN.


EXT. - INDIA - DAY

The COMET is a fiery behemoth in the sky. People run and flee.


EXT. FRONT LAWN OF A HOME - SAME TIME

Drask is firing a machine gun at the sky and screaming. When it’s out he takes out his hand gun and fires it at the sky.

BENEDICT DRASK
AHHHHH!!!

Finally Dr. Ginnerson comes out of the house.

DR. GINNERSON
Just come inside Benny. Let’s be

together.
 
153.


INT. UPSCALE LIVING ROOM - MANHATTAN

Riley Bina is in DJ Chello’s arms in a big cushy loveseat.

RILEY BINA
Here we are heart to heart facing

the end.

DJ CHELLO
And I wouldn’t want to be with
anyone else. I love you forever

girl.

His phone buzzes. Riley grabs it.

RILEY BINA
I got it. What’s your pass code?

DJ CHELLO
Give it to me. I’ll type it in.

RILEY BINA
Why do you care? Just tell me the

numbers.

DJ CHELLO
Because it’s my phone. It’s my own personal business.

RILEY BINA
Are you afraid I’ll see something?

We’re about to die together!

DJ CHELLO
That doesn’t mean I can’t have some privacy! Maybe you should trust me for once in your goddamn-


INT. THE MINDY DINING ROOM - MICHIGAN - CONTINUOUS

THE HOUSE IS SHAKING VIOLENTLY.

KATE
This coffee isn’t store bought is

it?

RANDALL
Never. I always grind my own beans.

JUNE
It’s true. Randall is very

particular about his coffee.
 
154.


YULE
How do you grind coffee beans at-

BOOM. We go SLO MO as the room collapses and disintegrates.


EXT. SPACE

SPACE SHOT OF EARTH AS THE COMET IMPACTS. GIANT PLUMES OF MAGMA SHOOT INTO THE SKY.

SHOCKWAVES SPREAD ACROSS THE PLANET.

A CHUNK OF THE EARTH SPLITS OFF.

Incredible amounts of DEBRIS, ROCK, CARS, DIRT, PEOPLE AND TREES PLUME OUT in the massive explosion.

We weave and snake through pieces of buildings, a hunk of gold from the comet, a copy of President Orlean’s best selling “HOW TO MANAGE YOUR MONEY EVEN WHEN YOU HAVE NONE”, a skateboard, half a whale etc until we catch a glint of metal...

Amidst the chaos ONE SPACESHIP NAVIGATES ITS WAY OUT.

As it passes us by a small BASH logo is visible on its side.

It soars out into the infinity of space. Leaving behind the new comet field that used to be planet earth.

DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. SPACE - 180 YEARS LATER

The ship navigates past a giant exploding galaxy. And towards a sparkling array of stars.

DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. SPACE - 3543 YEARS LATER

The spaceship cruises past a black hole devouring an asteroid field.


EXT. SPACE - 6788 YEARS LATER

The ship now dented and dirty is orbiting a planet that has a blue green hue to it.
 
155.


EXT. NEW PLANET - 22,740 YEARS LATER - DAY

The SHIP ENTERS THE ATMOSPHERE AND LANDS IN A CLEARING OF BLUE GRASS surrounded oddly shaped but verdant trees.

A group of 7 HALF DEER/HALF BIRDS leap past frame.

The door on the ship OPENS with a hiss.


INT. SPACESHIP - CONTINUOUS

PAN past all the cryo-chambers showing the names of their occupants: TED BILES-CEO INTER-BANK, HARRY TELT -CEO OF I.G.T., PETER ISHERWELL -CEO OF BASH, MICHELLE YAO -CEO OF MCKINSEY, JANIE ORLEAN -PRESIDENT OF USA, KID ROCK - MUSICIAN, CONGRESSMAN TENANT -etc.

The cryo chambers calculate and finally OPEN.


EXT. NEW PLANET - MOMENTS LATER

Slowly the naked and dazed CEOs, Lobbyists and Elected Officials begin to emerge from the ship. Most are in their late 60s and 70s. They groan, stretch and wipe their eyes.

Isherwell checks an atmospheric gauge.

PETER ISHERWELL
Oxygen is higher than on earth by 9 percent everyone so you might feel a bit light headed.
(checks more data)
Cryo-chambers were 58 percent
successful which is much better
than anticipated.

President Orlean, nude and with a lower back tattoo of a string of roses and guns, is there.

JANIE ORLEAN
There are 54 dead in there. And we lost the entire Goldman Sachs pod.

LOBBYIST
Is that good news or bad news?

Some chuckles.

PETER ISHERWELL
Pods 3 and 6 were destroyed roughly thousand years ago to a meteor storm.
 
156.


OLD BILLIONAIRE
I saw the frozen eggs and semen are preserved and safe.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
There’s fruit on these trees.
(he takes a bite)

Delicious.

PETER ISHERWELL
(looking around at the
world)
I think this will work quite well.

Quite well indeed...

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Look at that beautiful creature.

How striking...

President Orlean walks toward a feathered bear type creature 20 yards away. It immediately ATTACKS and kills her.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D)
(horrific scream)

KID ROCK
Holy shit. That’s nasty.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
What is that thing?

PETER ISHERWELL
I believe that’s a Brontaroc.

OLD BILLIONAIRE
Where are the engineers and

laborers? I want a house.

PETER ISHERWELL
They were on pod 3. They’re all

dead.

OLD BILLIONAIRE
I’ll give anyone who builds me a

house ten million dollars.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
Hell I’ll give 20 million.

PETER ISHERWELL
I’m offering a billion.

OLD BILLIONAIRE
5 billion.
 
157.


PETER ISHERWELL
20 billion.

They continue on with no takers as we pull out.

END.

AFTER CREDITS


EXT. EARTH - DAY

There is rubble everywhere. Ash falls from the sky.
Everything is devastation.

Some rubble moves and a cut and dusty Jason Orlean emerges.
Slowly he stands.

He might be the last living human.

JASON
Mom... Mom!!!!!

OUT
