PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Yes. That’s right.

KATE
(big exhale)

I’m just glad you’re finally going to do something... Jesus... This has been really really hard.

She gets a little teary-eyed but fights it back. Randall puts his hand on hers.

JASON
Jesus.

RANDALL
It’s been stressful for all of us.

Carrying this knowledge around...

JASON
Dr. Calder people will ask why we
didn’t act earlier so we need you

to take the hit on this.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Needless to say we’ll take care of

you down the road Jocelyn.

DR. CALDER
Of course Janie. I’ll resign in

disgrace first thing tomorrow.

KATE
(under her breath)

Well that’s weird as hell.

DR. OGLETHORPE
So what are we talking about Madame President? International joint action? NATO? A U.N. initiative?
 
70.


PRESIDENT ORLEAN
According to our scientists the
comet has already passed inside the

orbit of Jupiter.

RANDALL
That’s correct, yes.

JASON
So the optics are perfect.

KATE
And by “optics” you mean reality?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
I’m going to read a statement to the American people. We’ll give no notice to the press so it will have the quality of a breaking emergency...


INT. OHIO LIVING ROOM - TWO NIGHTS LATER

A HUSBAND AND WIFE (40s) AND THEIR TEEN DAUGHTER (14) watch TV while they eat and the daughter is on her phone. THE BACHELOR type show they’re watching is interrupted.

CLOSE UP: TV SCREEN: PRESIDENTIAL SEAL

ANCR (V.O.)
We interrupt this broadcast of
Jackpot Fiancé for an emergency
message from the President of the

United States.


INT. 24 HOUR GYM - SAME TIME

A LINE OF 9 GYM PATRONS all watch the announcement on their treadmill TV screens.


INT. BEDROOM - INDIA - DAY

CLOSE UP: An INDIAN TEEN watches on his phone in bed.

D70	INT. SUDANESE LIVING ROOM - DAY.	D70

A FAMILY IN THE SUDAN watch on TV
 
71.


EXT. WW 2 BATTLESHIP - NIGHT

President Orlean, at a podium in front of a WORLD WAR TWO BATTLESHIP with American flags everywhere. It’s lit like a movie. Behind her are Randall, Kate, Teddy and Jason. Jason occasionally mouths the words of the speech along with his Mom.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Citizens of the United States and
people of the world. I have just
been handed scientific findings
that confirm a worst case scenario.
An unprecedented comet 9 kilometers
wide is on a direct collision
course with our cherished home:
planet earth...


INT. OVAL OFFICE - FLASHBACK

CUT BETWEEN PLANNING AND THE EXECUTION of the media roll out.

JASON
We’ve already drawn up an emergency spending package for Congress-


EXT. BATTLESHIP - TWO NIGHTS LATER

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
-	an emergency spending package that will allow NASA in conjunction with our great military to launch a mission using decommissioned Space Shuttles and Satellites loaded with nuclear explosives to knock Comet Dibiasky off course-


INT. OVAL OFFICE - TWO NIGHTS PRIOR

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
And we’ll need a hero. A pilot.

RANDALL
Shouldn’t the mission all be done

using remote technology?

DR. OGLETHORPE
They always gotta have a hero.
 
72.


EXT. BATTLESHIP - TWO NIGHTS LATER

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
... I have asked Medal of Freedom
recipient and outspoken Patriot,
Benedict Drask to lead this

dangerous and critical mission-


INT. OVAL OFFICE - TWO NIGHTS EARLIER

RANDALL
Isn’t he that crazy mercenary who

cursed at those kids?

JASON
He’s also the guy who went into southern Pakistan without any authorization and killed Mussad Al Tabad.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Drask was given the honor of
leading the Presidential Initiative
to get kids exercising and let’s
just say he’s from another

generation.


EXT. WHITE HOUSE FRONT LAWN 3 YEARS EARLIER - DAY

A HUNDRED CHILDREN between the ages of 8-11 are doing jumping jacks on the White House Front Lawn while BENEDICT DRASK, 49, leads them on.

BENEDICT DRASK
Eleven! Twelve! Come on! You can do better than that! You look like a bunch of f-


EXT. BATTLESHIP - NIGHT

Benedict Drask stands at attention in his private military uniform and salutes.

BENEDICT DRASK
Benedict Drask reporting for duty

sir!

The President returns the salute.
 
73.


BENEDICT DRASK (CONT'D) Thank you for this honor Madame President. Some are saying this is a suicide mission. Well all I ask is if I get snuffed make sure you all earn the extra living my sacrifice gives you.


INT. OVAL OFFICE - TWO NIGHTS EARLIER

JASON
I wrote that line for him.

KATE
Isn’t that from Saving Private

Ryan?

JASON
No. It’s totally different.


EXT. BATTLESHIP - NIGHT

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
And special thanks go to the team of scientists behind me who were the first to raise the alarm about this looming threat. Dr. Teddy Oglethorpe, Kate Dibiasky who the comet is named after. But please don’t blame her. And the great and beloved Dr. Randall Mindy. Who will help us destroy our common enemy Dibiasky.


INT. OVAL OFFICE - FLASH BACK TWO NIGHTS PRIOR

JASON
And yeah, because you all were on this early you have a ton of credibility so we’ll need the three of you to be the face of this. That means interviews, appearances and total support for this administration.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Especially you Dr. Mindy. You poll

much higher than your colleagues.

RANDALL
Thank you...I guess.
 
74.


PRESIDENT ORLEAN
But Teddy is good for diversity and Ms. Dibiasky actually connects with disaffected youth and portions of the prison population.

KATE
Thank you.

DR. OGLETHORPE
We’ll do whatever we can.

JASON
Great. Then let’s get-

KATE
Can I say something?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
(annoyed)

Go ahead.

KATE
I didn’t vote for you... Frankly I find your policies of serving the rich over the needy and blaming people of different races and religions reprehensible... But this is obviously much...much bigger than any of my misgivings. So I will be 100% committed to this task. No matter how offensive I find you.

JASON
You know I was the one who told the
FBI to put the sack over your head.
The FBI doesn’t do that. That’s

CIA. But I made them.

KATE
I had a feeling. I really did.

JASON
Well that feeling was correct.

Because I did it.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Good then we’re all on the same

page.
 
75.


EXT. BATTLESHIP - 2 NIGHTS LATER

President Orlean finishes her speech.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
... I will be addressing the U.N. tomorrow in an emergency session. Although I am the leader of this nation, it is with the cooperation of the entire world that we shall confront this challenge. Unified and together. Thank you. And may Jesus Christ bless every one of you. Especially the honorable members of my party and our brothers and sisters in Israel.

MUSIC: SCORE: INSPIRING HORNS AND TIMPANIS.


INT. CLOSE UP OF SOCIAL MEDIA FEEDS

DIDDLY FEED that dissolves into FRIEND POST that dissolves into VROOM VROOM all buzzing about the comet: “Is this for real?” “I’m scared.” “We’re gonna kick this comet’s ass!” “That Dr. Mindy is fire hot.” “I hate that crazy chick.” “God will protect us.” “Get a free large fries when you say the word ‘comet.’” An Autopsy story: “32 Facts About the Comet that Will Make You Go ‘Gulp.’” by Philip Kaj.


INT. BEDROOM - SOUTH KOREA - NIGHT

A SOUTH KOREAN 12 YEAR OLD watches and types away on her phone.

NEWS ANCHOR MONTAGE (V.O.) It’s a speech that sent shockwaves around the world...

Several religious groups have claimed it’s God’s wrath for the NBA not saying the Lord’s Prayer before games...They’re calling the haircut “The Randall” after Dr. Randall Mindy. And millions are getting it... The first pictures of the comet have emerged and it’s a big one!


INT. DISHWASHING AREA OF A RESTAURANT KITCHEN - NIGHT

CU: THE FIRST FAIRLY CLEAR PICTURES BEGIN TO EMERGE OF THE COMET. A FLARE OF WHITE AGAINST THE BLACK OF SPACE.
 
76.


DISHWASHERS and WAITERS all look at their phones.


EXT. NEWS STAND AT TRAIN STATION - DAY

Magazine covers at a news stand (or online) show headlines like “Earth’s Big Moment!” “Drask’s Miracle Workout” “Are Sheriff Conlon and President Orlean F Buddies?” “Jason Orlean Wants To Save Mankind (and meet the right girl)” “How the Comet Changes NFL Playoff Race!”

NEWS MONTAGE (V.O.)
The U.K. France, India, Germany and even Iran have immediately pledged support...Is Kate Dibiasky to blame for the Dibiasky comet? Older Americans sure think so by an overwhelming margin according to...

Another magazine with Kate on the cover: Is She to Blame for the Comet? And one of Randall “America’s Scientist”


EXT. KENNEDY SPACE CENTER - DAYS LATER

An Old SPACE SHUTTLE and MISSILES ARE BEING TOWED ONTO THE TARMAC. Crews are building launch platforms.


EXT. GUN STORE - DAY

Long line of WHITE MEN wait to buy guns.

NEWS MONTAGE (V.O.)
Gun stores are running out of guns. And Kal-Mart stores have no more shovels.


EXT. KAL-MART - DAY

An OLDER TOUGH LADY is being interviewed. Her husband holds 7 shovels. A few SHOPPERS in the background wheel out carts full of toilet paper.

OLDER TOUGH LADY
Comet’s coming. People gotta dig
in. We already got buyers for these
shovels on E-Market for a thousand
bucks a pop. It’s called the free
market baby. You don’t like it move
to Seattle!
 
77.


INT. THE DAILY RIP STUDIO - DAY

Randall speaks with Brie and Jack on the air. The crawl underneath has stories about the comet as well as a story “MICHELE WEEMS ARRESTED AGAIN FOR MURDER” and “SENATOR LERNER PLEDGES TO SUPPORT PRESIDENT ORLEAN “DESPITE THEIR DIFFERENCES.” And “ALL STAR POINT GUARD PAUL FRANKLIN DOESN’T BELIEVE COMET IS REAL”

RANDALL
We’re all frightened. But I can
assure you our best and brightest
are on the job. I’ve seen the
science on this plan... and it is

sound. It will work.

BRIE EVANTEE
I know your words are a great
comfort to all of our viewers Dr.
Randall. We thank you for your
courage and service. Whenever I
feel afraid I think of you and I
just feel... Better.

Randall looks down and Brie has put her hand on his thigh. He clearly has a hard on pushing against his pants.

JACK BREMMER
Financial expert Franklin Hanes
joins us next. Find out why he
thinks the comet will be good for
your 401K and could lead to some

fantastic real estate bargains.


INT. OVAL OFFICE - DAY

Sheriff Conlon is being sworn in as the newest Supreme Court Justice by the Chief Justice while President Orlean looks on. She winks at him.

SHERIFF CONLON
I swear to uphold the laws of the Constitution to the best of my abilities and will serve the court-


INT. FANCY HOTEL - DAY

Randall and Brie Evantee have sex standing up in the hallway of a posh Manhattan hotel.

BRIE EVANTEE
Tell me we’re all going to die...
 
78.


RANDALL
What?

BRIE EVANTEE
Tell me we’re all going to die...

Do it...

Randall’s BASH PHONE SHOWS A TEXT “Hey love, Keith, the boys and I thought you were great on the show. Cheering you on from Michigan! Love, June.”

RANDALL
We’re all going to die...

BRIE EVANTEE
Ohhhh!!!! Tell me how we’re going

to die!!

RANDALL
Uh, the comet will hit off the coast of Chile at 116,000 miles per hour…the force of the explosion will send flaming debris raining down across the planet…The sun will be blocked out destroying the food chain and ushering in a new ice age.... Ohhh!!!

BRIE EVANTEE
OOOhhh!!!


INT. PATRIOT NEWS STUDIO - DAY

Kate and Teddy being interviewed by a Hannity type DAN PAWKETTY, 55 and debating with a Texas CONGRESSMAN TENANT, 76.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
So these two Marxists wave around
the word “science” and we’re all
supposed to do whatever they say?
How do we know there even is a

comet?

KATE
Well, actually Mr. Pawketty, Congressman, this data has now been confirmed and peer reviewed by hundreds of world-renowned scientists. So it’s not just according to us.
 
79.


CONGRESSMAN TENANT
And we’re supposed to trust you?

The comet’s got your name!

KATE
That doesn’t even make any sense.

DAN PAWKETTY
Then why won’t you answer the

question?

DR. OGLETHORPE
This is ridiculous. Other than a
few crazy videos on Me-Screen
there’s no credible scientists

arguing the comet isn’t real.

CONGRESSMAN TENANT
Don’t talk down to me. Last I saw
of you Dr. Oglethorpe your career
in DC was sinking faster than a

lead canoe.

MOMENTS LATER: Teddy and Kate are leaving the studio.

DR. OGLETHORPE
You did good. Kept it professional.

KATE
Why did he say that about your

career? Is he-

DR. OGLETHORPE
Yup. That’s the guy. It’s okay. Water under the bridge. Water under the bridge.


INT. KIDS SHOW STUDIO - DAY

Randall talks to SAMMY, a cute, famous kids’ puppet.

SAMMY
Hello, Dr. Mindy.

RANDALL
Hello Sammy.

SAMMY
Are you really a doctor?

RANDALL
No Sammy, I’m an astronomer.
 
80.


SAMMY
What’s an astronomer?

RANDALL
Well Sammy, we look up in the sky, and study the universe.

SAMMY
Dr. Mindy, I don’t want to look up in the sky.

RANDALL
Why Sammy?

SAMMY
Because I am afraid of the big

comet.

RANDALL
It’s ok to be afraid Sammy. Even I get scared sometimes, but I promise, a lot of really smart and brave people are going to make sure we’re all safe.

SAMMY
Thank you Dr. Mindy. I feel sooo much better knowing all those scientists are working hard to keep us safe!


MUSIC: A SONG

SAMMY (CONT'D)
WE ALL GET SCARED SOMETIMES
ESPECIALLY AROUND BEDTIMES
BUT THE COMET WON’T GET US
BECAUSE BRAVE PEOPLE WON’T LET US
GET HURT
SO HAVE SOME YUMMY DESSERT
AND A TICKLE OR TWO!!!

Randall tickles Sammy.


INT. WHITE HOUSE HALLWAY

President Orlean, Randall, Jason and Kate walk down a hallway.
 
81.


JASON
The anti-taxers in Congress want something in exchange for this comet spending bill. And so do the religious folks.

KATE
How about not dying?

JASON
Why are they here?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
I’ll give them a 5% tax cut for
people making over 10 million a
year and a bill that gives patients
full disclosure of their Doctor’s

background.

RANDALL
Isn’t that the law that says any
Doctor who is gay must tell all

patients?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
We need that spending bill. It’s

time to grow up gang.


INT. UPSCALE RESTAURANT - DAY

Brie and Randall have lunch with A TALENT AGENT: KATHY LOGOLOS, 42. A total killer who is old friends with Brie.

KATHY LOGOLOS
The quick pops on talk shows are great but we need to get Randall out there as a paid speaker. The Big Banks and Tech Companies will pay a 100 grand a pop for you right out of the gate.

BRIE EVANTEE
I make 150 thousand and I’m the
worst. My last one was for
Evergreen Bank and I ended by
saying “always reach for your

dreams.” How terrible is that?

RANDALL
I don’t totally understand why I
need an agent. Isn’t the idea to
just inform people about what’s

going on?
 
82.


KATHY LOGOLOS
You weren’t kidding Brie. He’s adorable. Also LTD Sedans has a new electric car and they want someone who projects intelligence and sex appeal. I already said you’d do it.

BRIE EVANTEE
I’m ordering the oysters.

KATHY LOGOLOS
You’re a genius.

RANDALL
Wait, but I don’t want to do a car commercial.

BRIE EVANTEE
No one “wants” to do a car
commercial sweetie. But when they

ask you say yes.

KATHY LOGOLOS
Besides Albert Einstein did

commercials for Volvo.

RANDALL
Is that true?

KATHY LOGOLOS
It might be. Let’s get the oysters and some more wine and decide if we care or not.


EXT. EAST LAWN - TWO DAYS LATER

President Orlean signs the bill into law with Randall behind her.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
This may be the bill that saves

mankind.

Everyone applauds.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D) And also gives tax relief to high earning job creators... and religious freedom to medical patients.

Slightly confused applause.
 
83.


INT. KENNEDY SPACE CENTER MEDICAL CENTER - DAY

Drask sits shirt off on an examination table. A PHYSICIAN, 31, approaches.

BENEDICT DRASK
Let me save you save you some time on the physical Doc. Just write “ticker’s still ticking.”

PHYSICIAN
Mr. Drask I’m Doctor Ginnerson. And according to federal mandate 38-D9 I must inform you that I had several homosexual encounters in college.

BENEDICT DRASK
What the fuck?


EXT. D.C. HOTEL - NIGHT

Cable reporter Dalia Hensfield does a live shot from outside the busy hotel. CRAWL at the bottom of the CVN screen: “END

TIMES CULTS FLOCK TO CHILE’S BEACHES ” “TELESCOPE SALES ARE AT AN HISTORIC HIGH” “RILEY BINA AND DJ CHELLO SET WEDDING DATE: APRIL 11” “PLANS FOR A “MEOW” TV SHOW IN THE WORKS.”

DALIA HENSFIELD
And it was a clean sweep for
President Orlean’s party in the
midterms giving her a super
majority in both the House and the
Senate. And a record setting 98
percent approval rating. Some even
think the President could win the
Nobel Peace Prize. Which would be
remarkable for a leader who once
said waterboarding is “no worse
than when the masseuse goes too

hard on you.”


EXT. TRAIN STATION - DAY

NEWS STAND GUY puts out new Time Magazines with a cover showing President Orlean smoking a cigarette with the headline “SMOKING HOT!”


INT. CABLE NEWS STUDIO - DAY

Kate is on CVN cable news with host HARRISON TELMS, 50.
 
84.


KATE
The plan seems solid but we need to be prepared for all outcomes. What we’re talking about Harrison is the future of life on this planet.

HARRISON TELMS
Interesting. Well let’s check our
viewer poll. Is the future of

mankind at stake?

GRAPHICS come up: 38% Yes, 47% NO, 15% UNDECIDED

HARRISON TELMS (CONT'D) And it looks like our viewers do not agree with you.

KATE
That’s great. But science is
something that transcends opinion
so I’m not sure what the point of

that poll is.

HARRISON TELMS
Coming up next: Riley Bina and DJ
Chello have officially split up.
Details are sketchy at the moment.
We are hearing that Lady Baroque is
not involved.
(and then to Kate)
Are you team Bina or team Chello?

KATE
I really haven’t been following- I don’t care.

HARRISON TELMS
Okay. We’ll be back to discuss this after the break.

They go to commercial break. The Meow commercial plays on the studio monitor.

HARRISON TELMS (CONT'D) A word of friendly advice. Maybe you would get your message across more effectively if you didn’t act like you’re better than everyone.

KATE
But my “message” is about the
possibility of all of mankind
dying. I’m frightened. As we all

should be.
 
85.


HARRISON TELMS
You just did it again. Thanks for

coming on.


INT. HOTEL ROOM BEDROOM - NIGHT

Brie holds a glass of wine as she and Randall lay in bed post coital.

BRIE EVANTEE
I just realized we don’t really

know anything about each other.

RANDALL
Every time I ask about your life
you tell me about your favorite

restaurants.

BRIE EVANTEE
I despise the “get to know you” part of relationships so let’s just get it all over with now: My Grandfather invented the flash freezing process so I come from grotesque money but I got away from it by getting three Master’s degrees. I’ve been divorced twice. One was a Secretary of State. The other a sport fisherman. I’ve slept with two former Presidents and I speak four languages and own two Monets. Now you.

Randall sits up a little straighter.

RANDALL
Um, okay... my Dad was a middle school geography teacher. My Mother cut hair out of our kitchen. I have two kids. My youngest struggles with mood swings. My wife teaches disabled children ceramics. Last year we put a new deck on our house. Which was surprisingly hard. We never quite got the stain right. Two years ago our dog JoJo died after eating a lot of chocolate. That was really emotional. And, oh yeah, I have a Star Wars poster signed by Mark Hamill.
 
86.


BRIE EVANTEE
Good. That’s done. Where should we eat tonight?

RANDALL
Do you ever get afraid? I mean what if the mission goes wrong...? Sometimes I think about what will happen to us...

Brie gets up and goes into the bathroom where she turns the shower on.

BRIE EVANTEE
There’s a new place on 73rd.
Everything they serve is a cube. I
think it’s called Telekinesis.

Let’s give it a whirl!


SMASH CUT TO:


EXT. DC SKYLINE

JET PLANES RIP ACROSS THE D.C. SKY IN FORMATION WITH A DEAFENING ROAR.

“GIANT LETTERS ACROSS THE SCREEN “LAUNCH	DAY”


EXT. LAUNCH PAD - CONTINUOUS

NASA van pulls up, Drask exits van heroically in a space suit. Two techs walking to the space shuttle.


INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY

President Orlean, Randall, Jason, Kate, Teddy, Air Force General Themes, THREE OTHER GENERALS and for some reason Brie Evantee are all crouched in the situation room looking at MONITORS SHOWING A MODIFIED SPACE SHUTTLE. It’s surrounded by an array of satellites and other Space Shuttles on the launch pad at Kennedy Center.

BENEDICT DRASK (O.C.)
(crackly on the radio)
This is Benedict Drask on the

launch pad and ready for a go.
 
	87.		
EXT. KENNEDY SPACE CENTER - 3 MILES AWAY - SAME TIME		
A HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE watch from a distance with		
binoculars and phones raised.			
PRESIDENT ORLEAN (V.O.)		
This is your President Commander		
Drask. Your nation thanks you. Your		
planet thanks you. And your God,		
Jesus Christ thanks you.		
Hundreds of press report from around the world.		
FRENCH REPORTER	HAITIAN REPORTER		
I've just spoken to the	The skies are clear and the		
technical liaison from NASA	weather is temperate and the		
who assures me the mission is	conditions seem perfect for		
a go and the probability of	launch. I'm not going to lie,		
success is extremely high.	I personally am afraid and		
Dr. Randall Mindy also	concerned but ultimately		
released a statement saying	hopeful that today will be		
that he has the utmost	one of the greatest days in		
confidence in the engineers	the history of mankind. If		
and scientists who have put	you are with your family,		
thousands of man hours into	hold them tight and tell them		
planning this mission.	that you love them. Even if	*	
President Orlean says there	you don't. And God Bless		
is no better person to lead	President Janie Orlean and		
this mission than the	the United States of America.		
astronaut, Gary Drask.			


EXT. TOKYO CENTER CITY - SAME TIME - NIGHT

A HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE WATCH on giant screens.


EXT. CAIRO EGYPT - SAME TIME - DAY

HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS WATCH GIANT SCREENS.


INT. MISSION CONTROL - CONTINUOUS

Mission control full of techies at screens coordinate the launch.

MISSION COORDINATOR
This is Mission Control. All
indicators are coming up green.
This is a final warning to control
the launch pad. I repeat, we are

approaching countdown.
 
88.


INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Dr. Randall Mindy your discovery led to this mission and the chance to save earth. I give you the honor.

Kate glances over at Randall. She sees he and Brie Evantee are holding hands?

RANDALL
Thank you Madame President.
Citizens of planet earth...

commence countdown.

MISSION COORDINATOR (V.O.)
Launch mission array in 10, 9, 8...

Peter Isherwell, CEO of BASH enters the room.

PETER ISHERWELL
Hello all.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Hello Peter.

PETER ISHERWELL
Hi Brie! You look lovely as always.

KATE
Should he be in here?

JASON
Yes, Peter’s a Platinum Eagle Donor to the campaign. He has full clearance.

MISSION COORDINATOR (V.O.)
...3, 2, 1... liftoff!


EXT. KENNEDY SPACE CENTER - SAME TIME

The Shuttles and satellites shoot bright yellow and red flame as they battle against the pull of gravity...

MISSION COORDINATOR (V.O.) We have successful liftoff. I repeat: we have successful liftoff.
 
89.


INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - SAME TIME

Everyone cheers and high fives.

DR. OGLETHORPE
We didn’t lose any satellites.
Margin of error was for two to

malfunction.

RANDALL
Mission success probability has
already increased to 81 percent.

This is good. This is very good.

Peter Isherwell pulls the President aside.

PETER ISHERWELL
Madame President can I speak to you outside for one second?

She’s engrossed by the screens showing liftoff.

PETER ISHERWELL (CONT'D)
(in his real voice)

Janie. Now!


PRESIDENT ORLEAN
I’m so sorry. Of course Peter.

JASON
Mom, where are you going?

She’s already exited with Peter.

KATE
Are you worried she’s going to fuck him? Your Mom gets around doesn’t she?

JASON
Screw you.

But when Jason turns away he has a hurt face.


INT. SHUTTLE COCKPIT - THE UPPER ATMOSPHERE - SAME TIME

Drask shakes and rattles in the cockpit.

BENEDICT DRASK
6 minutes from main engine cut off. Everything is A-OK. Just wanna say hello to everyone on earth.
(MORE)
 
90.

BENEDICT DRASK (CONT'D) All the proud white folks, the Mexicans, great food. The Arabs, at least the ones who don’t act all crazy. The Fairies, the Chinamen, your babies are really cute. And the negroes. Especially when you’re calm and not all jacked up and-

MISSION COORDINATOR (V.O.) Uh, Commander. Booster ejection is imminent. Let’s keep com on mission.

BENEDICT DRASK
Roger that. One last hello to Dr.
Ginnerson. Duncan I’m thinking
about that dinner we had last

night. It was really special.


INT. PICK UP TRUCK - DAY

A MEXICAN FATHER (51) AND SON (17) watch the launch on a cell in their truck behind a warehouse.


EXT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE THE SITUATION ROOM - SECONDS LATER

Long shot down the hallway: Peter Isherwell explaining something to President Orlean. She attempts to jump in but he cuts her off.

PETER ISHERWELL
There are moments where risk and
opportunities collide with
incredible force. It is in those
moments in which diamonds and

rubies are created Janie.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Peter. I can’t. The whole world is

watching.

PETER ISHERWELL
Then show them who you are. Show the world your place in history. You are more than a portrait in a museum or a school named after you. Do this Janie and they will name the country after you.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Oh Jesus. My face feels hot. Are we really going to do this?
 
91.


PETER ISHERWELL
The day you were born it was

already done.


INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - SAME TIME

The Shuttles and satellites approach the outer atmosphere.

BENEDICT DRASK (V.O.)
(on his radio)

So far so good. Just another day at the office!

JASON
I wrote that.

KATE
Isn’t that just something people

say? How can you write that?

BRIE EVANTEE
(in French)
Et les anges s’envolent vers le

ciel...

RANDALL
What does that mean?

BRIE EVANTEE
It means “And the angels soar to the heavens...” It’s from a 14th century French poem I studied at Dartmouth... Watching this made me think of it... And you.

RANDALL
When I look at your eyes... I can’t look away.

Brie and Randall kiss. The room clocks it.

DR. OGLETHORPE
(under his breath)

Well okay. It’s a party.

KATE
(to Air Force General
Themes)

Can you hand me a water?

AIR FORCE GENERAL THEMES
(hands her the water)

Of course.
 
92.


Kate stares at him hard. But then President Orlean walks back in looking solemn.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Everyone...I’ve just been given
some critical information

concerning our mission.

CUT TO:


EXT. KENNEDY SPACE CENTER - SAME TIME

MASSIVE CROWD WATCHING AND CHEERING ON THE SPACE SHUTTLE

SCORE: GLORIOUS

NEWS ANCHORS CHATTER (V.O.) Not since D-Day has there been a moment - today we are one planet, one people-- proving that when we unite mankind can do great, great things!

Although it’s just a flaming speck in the sky, we see slowly but surely that THE LEAD SPACE SHUTTLE BEGINS TURNING.

ONLOOKER
Hey! It’s looks like it’s turning

around!

GUY
No it’s not! It’s a course

correction! Pretty standard!

Nope. It’s turning around.

ONLOOKER
Nope! It’s turning around! He

deployed his capsule!

ANOTHER ONLOOKER
What the fuck?!

A MOM
It’s definitely turning around! It is! See how the flame is in a different direction than it was before!

And now IT’S FULLY HEADED BACK TO EARTH along with the other shuttles and satellites. THE CROWD AND CROWDS ACROSS THE WORLD ARE SILENT AND CONFUSED.
 
93.


ANCHORS CHATTER (V.O.) There seems to be some confusion - Perhaps a malfunction - No details as of yet - Radio contact has ceased and Mission Control has gone to a different channel-


INT. MISSION CONTROL

Mission Coordinator turns around in his seat and addresses the rest of his team.

MISSION COORDINATOR
Does anyone know what the fuck just

happened?!

CUT TO:


INT. WHITE HOUSE OFFICE - TWO HOURS LATER

Teddy, Randall and Kate are in a generic office. Teddy tries the door.

DR. OGLETHORPE
It’s still locked.

RANDALL
I don’t understand. The mission was working. Everything was on track.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Had to be a computer malfunction.

Or maybe the nukes destabilized.

KATE
Who was that man who walked in when we were in the situation room? He looked familiar.

DR. OGLETHORPE
That was Peter Isherwell, CEO of
BASH. And the third richest human
ever. He saw his wife fall into a
wood chipper and hasn’t spoken

since.

The door opens. It’s Jason.

JASON
I’m very sorry for keeping you in here but the situation is extremely fluid.

(MORE)
 
94.

JASON (CONT'D)
(and then)
Dr. Randall, you’re now Chief
Science Advisor to the White

House...

RANDALL
What? Okay. But we need to know why the mission was turned around.

JASON
...and as such we need you for an emergency cabinet meeting right now where you will be fully debriefed.

KATE
What about us?

JASON
I’m sorry. You don’t have the
clearance for this meeting. Here
are some bottled waters and

crackers.

RANDALL
I’ll be back. I’m sorry about this.

An ASSISTANT hands them the snacks. Then closes the door.

KATE
Hey! What if we have to go to the

bathroom!?


INT. CABINET ROOM - 20 MINUTES LATER

President Orlean presides over a FULL CABINET MEETING with Randall, Jason, several Generals in attendance. Peter Isherwell stands behind the President.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Ladies and gentlemen what we and
what the world thought was an
impending and terrifying danger...
is actually an astonishing

opportunity.

SECRETARY OF STATE GLEESON BERKERS Our allies are very confused and demanding answers Madame President.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Tell them to wait.
(moves on)

(MORE)
 
95.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN (CONT'D) According to a recent spectrometer reading of Comet Dibiasky done by astro-geologists at BASH cellular... we have discovered something truly miraculous. Peter?

PETER ISHERWELL
Thank you, Janie. As some of you
know the most valuable minerals in
the world are fast becoming the
ones used to make cell phones and
computers: yttrium, terbium,
osmium, dysprosium, and on and on.
China has a strong hold on the
mines that produce these valuable
rare earth assets. But we have
determined that this comet has at
least eighteen trillion dollars of

these critical materials.

RANDALL
Wait. So the mission was aborted

for rare minerals?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
There’s more. In addition, this
Near-Earth Object also contains 30
trillion dollars in gold, platinum,
palladium, billions of tons of pure
water, and assorted heavy
radioactive minerals.

PETER ISHERWELL
When other metals are factored in this comet contains almost 140 trillion dollars’ worth of assets.

There’s some muttering and oohs and ahhs in the room.

JASON
Wooow.

RANDALL
But what does any of this matter if it destroys the whole planet?

SECRETARY OF EDUCATION
I was about to ask the same

question Janie.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Please give us just a little credit

gang. We have a plan.
 
96.


PETER ISHERWELL
That’s right. A safe and dare I say brilliant, plan that will protect earth and transform the future of mankind forever.

TWO BASH employees are setting up a large computer screen.


INT. WHITE HOUSE OFFICE - SAME TIME

Teddy and Kate have eaten the Cheez-Bits and drank the water.
They stare off, half asleep and half stricken with stress.

KATE
I’ve gone over it again and again
and I still don’t get it. He’s a
three star General. He’s from the
Pentagon. Why would he charge us

for the free snacks?

DR. OGLETHORPE
People are weird. One time I met
Sting and I swear to God he farted
right in front of me and didn’t
even say excuse me. Thing is, he

pulled it off.

The door opens. It’s Randall.

RANDALL
Okay, let’s go. Hurry.


EXT. BOJO MAMBO’S SHRIMP - AN HOUR LATER - NIGHT


INT. BOJO MAMBO'S SHRIMP - CONTINUOUS

Seafood, cocktails. It’s Bojo Mambo’s, you know the vibe.

DR. OGLETHORPE
That’s insane. Completely insane.

KATE
It won’t work.

RANDALL
Listen, I was furious they halted the mission too. And then the BASH team showed us the science and I’ll be damned if it’s not truly impressive.
 
97.


KATE
We’re talking about a 9 kilometer
wide planet killer not roaming

charges.

RANDALL
They have Gary Talcamont out of
Stanford and Lisa Inez from
Princeton on their team. This is
cutting edge next generation

technology they’ve created.


INT. CABINET ROOM - EARLIER

Isherwell, DR. INEZ, DR. TALCAMONT and a BASH designer show an impressive animation of featuring dozens of DRONES WITH DRILL TIPS and EXPLOSIVE CHARGES. President Orlean vapes while she listens.

PETER ISHERWELL
One giant comet is a major and

existential threat to our planet... But 30 smaller meteoroids we can handle. Our BEADS, which stands for BASH Explore and Acquire Drones, will attach to the comet and scan using Nano-technology developed by Nobel Prize winner Dr. Gary Talcamont here.

DR. TALCAMONT
Thank you Peter. Our nano scanners assume a near liquid form and are able to completely scan the comet’s integral structural points within a second of initial contact.

PETER ISHERWELL
We will then deploy Nobel and
Polofsky prize winning scientist
Dr. Inez’s micro targeted quantum
fission explosives deep into the

object...

COMET has been scanned on a 3D grid. IN THE ANIMATION the drones ATTACH USING THEIR DRILL BITS and BLAM!
 
98.


DR. INEZ
... That’s right Peter. We’ve been developing phase fission reactions in the CERN particle accelerator that can splinter the comet into smaller pieces with breathtaking accuracy. These segments are then steered and decelerated by each BEAD into the Pacific Ocean for reclamation by waiting US Navy ships...

The animated drones then individually steer each piece of the comet into the Pacific ocean making a simple splash.

PETER ISHERWELL
And once this treasure from the Heavens is claimed poverty as we know it will become a relic of the past and mankind will enter a golden age of opportunity and innovation.

The room applauds.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
And Dr. Mindy we would like you to join our research team of over a dozen Nobel Prize winning scientists.

RANDALL
Well I’ll need to review all of this science first. I have many, many questions. But... clearly I having nothing but respect for Dr. Inez and Talcamont.

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
This is an historic moment.
Opportunity is knocking. Let’s have

the courage to open the door.

JASON
Of course we’re opening it right?

How can we not?

PRESIDENT ORLEAN
Shhh. Let the question hang in the air so the listener can answer it themselves.
 
99.


INT. BOJO MAMBO’S SHRIMP RESTAURANT - CONTINUOUS

DR. OGLETHORPE
Hold on, hold on. This comet is moving at 52 kilometers per second. That’s 116,000 miles per hour. How are you gonna navigate a drone to hit the comet on the precise spot that’ll split it up exactly the way we need?

RANDALL
Talcamont has developed nano-tech
sensors in conjunction with MIT.
They form a full structural
analysis the second they make

contact.

DR. OGLETHORPE
And is this nano-tech work peer

reviewed?

RANDALL
I need to review the data but it’s been modelled.

KATE
Has any of this been reviewed?

RANDALL
No. But what choice do we have?!

KATE
That’s it. I’m out.

DR. OGLETHORPE
So am I.

RANDALL
My exact job is to ask the
questions you’re asking! If the
answers are unacceptable I’m the

one who stops this.

KATE
And what happens when you start getting some answers you don’t like? You going to go up against a 600 billion dollar corporation and the whole US Government?

RANDALL
At least I’m in the room! What are you going to do on the outside?
(MORE)
 
100.

RANDALL (CONT'D)
Hold up some protest signs? Start an online petition? Besides, their lives and their family’s lives are at stake too.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Lots and lots of money makes people do real short sighted stuff. Seen it over and over and over...

RANDALL
This money is for the whole world. Poverty will cease to exist. This could eliminate wars, starvation, everyone will have healthcare and clean water.

DR. OGLETHORPE
Oh. So that’s the pretty bow
they’re putting on this dangerous

bullshit. Give me a break Doc.

RANDALL
So if I leave then who’s there to make sure this whole thing doesn’t turn into a disaster? Answer me. Who?

KATE
I hate to break it to you but it’s already a disaster. They’re about to let a comet the size of a mountain hit the planet to jack up a cell phone company’s stock!

Everyone at the bar and tables nearby is now looking at them.
