FADE IN:

OVER the opening strains of "I LOVE YOU, CALIFORNIA," a MONTAGE: a mixture of headlines, newsreel footage and live action. Economy Booming! Postwar Optimism! L.A.: City of the Future! But most prominent among them: GANGLAND! Police photographers document crime scenes. The meat wagon hauls ex-button men to the morgue. Where will it end?


EXT. L.A. SKYLINE - SUNSET

Palm trees in silhouette against a cherry sky. City lights twinkle. Los Angeles. A place where anything is possible. A place where dreams come true. As the sky darkens, triple-kleig lights begin to sweep back and forth.


EXT. MANSION (HANCOCK PARK) - NIGHT

The KLEIG LIGHTS are out front. Valets hurry to park a line of elegant cars.
 
MAYOR (V.O.)
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you
the future of Los Angeles!


INT. HANCOCK PARK MANSION - BALLROOM - NIGHT

The MAYOR yanks a cloth to reveal a MODEL of L.A. criss-crossed by an elaborate FREEWAY SYSTEM. The CROWD oohs. A COUNCILMAN claps. A SOCIETY MATRON nods her approval.

PIERCE PATCHETT, 50, tuxedoed, watches off to one side.

A	behind-the-scenes power broker, Patchett exudes authority much more so than the Mayor does.

MAYOR
The Arroyo Seco freeway is just
the beginning.	We're planning
freeways from Downtown to Santa

Monica, from the South Bay to the
San Fernando Valley.	Twenty
minutes to work or play is the

longest you'll have to travel.

More applause.	One REPORTER asks a little too loudly...

REPORTER

How many bodies you think Mickey
Cohen'll be able to hide in all
that cement?

The Mayor wears a plastic smile, ignores it.


INT. THE MOCAMBO - NIGHT

A CLUB PHOTOGRAPHER pops snapshots, but the real action is on the floor where MICKEY COHEN does a wicked "Lindy Hop" with THREE different GIRLS at once. A fireplug of a man, he hardly seems a public menace. Nearby is his bodyguard JOHNNY STOMPANATO. Over it all:

HUDGEONS (V.O.)
Meyer Harris Cohen, Mickey C to
his fans.	He's the big moocher,
local L.A. color to the nth
degree.	You know Mickey.	He runs

dope, rackets and prostitution.
He kills a dozen people a year.

But who you may not know is
bodyguard Johnny Stompanato.

His hair in a slick pompadour, Stompanato keeps an eye on Cohen and comes onto a CIGARETTE GIRL at the same time.

HUDGEONS (V.O.)
Johnny's handsome, ladies, but the

real attraction is below the belt.
Second only to Steve Cochran, he's
sometimes known as 'Oscar' because
of his Academy Award-size
 
appendage.

Mickey works a sweat on the dance floor. A bottle of champagne pops; Stompanato reacts, nearly draws a pistol from his shoulder holster. As he laughs at himself...


INT. HUSH-HUSH MAGAZINE OFFICE - DAY

Lurid page one headlines cover the wall where SID HUDGEONS types. The essence of sleaze, Sid is the publisher-photographer-writer of Hush-Hush magazine and keeper of inside dirt supreme. As he continues...

HUDGEONS (V.O.)
Remember, dear readers, you heard
it here first, off the record, on

the Q.T. and very Hush-Hush.


INT. HANCOCK PARK MANSION - BALLROOM - NIGHT

The party continues. The Mayor has moved off to the side with the power brokers. Patchett is a presence.

MAYOR
We're selling an image, gentlemen.
Beautiful weather.	Affordable
housing.
(re:	model)
Trouble-free transportation.	And
the best police department in the

world to keep it all running
smoothly.


EXT. STOREFRONT - NIGHT

A dozen people watch a display windoe TELEVISION as it rolls the opening of the hit show "Badge of Honor." Over familiar THEME MUSIC, "Sgt. Joe Reno" (actor BRETT CHASE) walks the streets of Los Angeles.

CHASE (V.O.)

My name?	Joe Reno.	The city?
Los Angeles.	A big town.	Full of
all sorts of people.	It's my job

to help them.	I like what I do.
I'm a cop.


INT. HANCOCK PARK MANSION - BALLROOM - NIGHT

The Mayor continues.

MAYOR
But with a second rate Al Capone

out there, L.A. looks like Chicago
in the '30s.	Something has to be
done.
 
As Pierce Patchett nods sagely.


INT. OLYMPIC AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

Wrestler GORGEOUS GEORGE primps and poses before flatten-ing an opponent with a drop kick.


INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

An enthusiastic crowd adjusts their 3-D glasses.


EXT. COHEN MANSION (BEVERLY HILLS) - DAY

In monogrammed silk pajamas, Mickey Cohen answers the door, his pet BULLDOG Mickey Jr. at his feet. The police are waiting. REPORTERS' flashbulbs pop.

POLICE OFFICER
Mr. Cohen, you're under arrest.

COHEN

Bullshit.	What's the charge?

POLICE OFFICER

Non-payment of federal income tax.

COHEN
Bullshit.


EXT. GRAUMAN'S CHINESE - DAY

JOHN WAYNE gets his hand prints in the sidewalk.


EXT. WESTCHESTER BEAN FIELD - DAY

MIGRANT WORKERS hurry to finish the harvest.	We PAN

TO CONSTRUCTION WORKERS who wait impatiently with bull-dozers under a "Spirit of the Future" BANNER. As the last picker leaves the field, the bulldozers move in, leveling the bean rows to make way for a housing tract.


EXT. FEDERAL COURTHOUSE - STEPS - DAY

Flashbulbs pop as Mickey Cohen exits and starts down the steps. Accompanied by his LAWYERS, bodyguard Stompanato and mob lieutenants DEUCE PERKINS and NATE JANKLOW, Cohen ignores REPORTERS' shouts.

REPORTER
How's your bullshit now, Mickey?!

As Cohen gets into a waiting car, the media turn their attention to District Attorney ELLIS LOEW. A singularly ambitious man, Loew loves the spotlight.
 
LOEW
Today is an auspicious one for the
city of Los Angeles.	Mickey Cohen
has just been sentenced to ten

years in federal prison for
failure to pay income tax.
As the District Attorney for Los

Angeles County, it is my pleasure
to declare our great city
organized crime free.	It is truly
the dawning of a new day.

The SONG ENDS and so does the MONTAGE.


INT. PACKARD (ACROSS FROM BULLOCKS WILSHIRE) - NIGHT

December 24th. Wendell "BUD" WHITE, 30, stares at the enormous Christmas tree on the deco platform over Bullocks' entrance. An LAPD cop, Bud's rep as the toughest man on the force has been well earned. In the back seat, with cases of Walker Black and Cutty Sark, is Bud's partner -- DICK STENSLAND. Older, but also a tough hump, "Stens" sucks on a pint of Old Crow.

The passenger door opens and Mickey Cohen bodyguard Johnny Stompanato slides in. Guinea handsome, Johnny wears his curls in a tight pompadour. With his boss behind bars, he's out of work. Bud just stares at him.

STOMPANATO
Officer White.	I heard you got a
hard-on for wife beaters.

BUD
And you fuck people up for a
living.	That don't make me you.

Capisce, shitbird?

Stompanato smiles. Nervous. Through the window, Bud watches a Salvation Army Santa palm coins from a kettle.

STENSLAND
Bud ain't in the mood for small
talk, Stompanato.

STOMPANATO

Look, Mickey C's doing time and
half the other guys who'd hire me

are dead or left town.	I need
money.	If your snitch-fund's
green, I'll get you some fucking-A

collars.

Impatient, Bud tugs at a finger, CRACKS a KNUCKLE.

STOMPANATO

There's this guy.	He's blond and
fat, about forty.	Likes the
ponies.	Been pimping his wife to
cover his losses.	Knocks her
 
around to keep her in line.

Bud's eyes narrow at this last bit of info. Stompanato holds up a slip of paper.

STOMPANATO
I figure the address is worth
twenty.

Bud digs into his wallet, pulls out twenty bucks, exchanges it with Stompanato. Stompanato smiles smugly, grabs a bottle of Scotch from the back.

STOMPANATO

Yuletide cheer, fellas.

Without warning, Bud grabs Stompanato's tie and yanks, slamming his forehead into the dash.

BUD
Happy New Year, greaseball.

EXT. 1486 EVERGREEN - NIGHT

A stucco job in a row of vet prefabs. A neon Santa sleigh has landed on the roof. Through the front window, we see a fat guy browbeating a woman. Puff-faced, 35-ish, she backs away as he rages at her.

The Packard pulls up out front. Stensland could care less.

STENSLAND
Leave it for later, Bud.	We got

to pick up the rest of the booze
and get back to the precinct.

Bud KILLS the IGNITION, picks up the radio.

BUD
Central, this is 4A-31.	Send a
prowler to 1486 Evergreen.	White

male in custody.	Code 623 point
one.	Domestic assault and
battery.	I won't be here, but
they'll see him.


EXT. 1486 EVERGREEN - BUD - NIGHT

steps to the house. Inside, we hear SLAPS, MUFFLED CRIES. Bud grips an outlet cord coming off the roof and yanks. The sleigh crashes to the ground with REINDEER EXPLODING around it. A beat. The fat guy runs out to investigate, trips over Rudolph.

Bud pounces. Fat guy takes a swing, misses. Grabbing fat guy's hair, Bud smashes his face to the pavement. Once, twice. Teeth skitter down the walk.

BUD
 
Touch her again and I'll know
about it.	Understand?	Huh?

Another face full of gravel. Fat guy's WIFE watches with apprehension from the steps as Bud cuffs her husband's hands behind his back, empties his pockets. A cash roll and car keys. Bud looks over at her.

BUD

You got someplace you can go?

She nods.	Bud hands her the keys and the cash.

BUD

Go get yourself fixed up.

WIFE

(nods, determined)
Merry Christmas, huh?

Bud watches as she gets into a pre-war Ford in the drive.
She backs over a blinking reindeer as she goes.

STENSLAND

You and women, partner.	What's
next?	Kids and dogs?


INT. STAGE FOUR (VARIETY INTERNATIONAL PICTURES) - NIGHT

The "Badge of Honor" set. A Christmas party in full swing. Eating, drinking, and dancing. Star Brett Chase, seen earlier on television, is holding court.

LAPD Sgt. "Trashcan" JACK VINCENNES, late 30s with slick, good looks, dances with a young ACTRESS. Grinding their way through a ballad, they're obviously hitting it off.

ACTRESS

Brett Chase told me you're the cop
who busted Bob Mitchum.
(grinds closer)

These 'Badge of Honor' guys like
to pretend, but being the real
thing must be a thrill.

JACK

Let's go someplace quiet.	I'll
give you the low-down on Mitchum.

ACTRESS
You got your handcuffs with you?

JACK

Two sets.

ACTRESS

I'll get my coat.

They're interrupted by Sid Hudgeons.
 
HUDGEONS
Big V Jack Vincennes!	May I have
this dance?

JACK
Karen, this is Sid Hudgeons from
Hush-Hush magazine.

ACTRESS

I know who he is.

The Actress storms off.	Jack looks to Sid.

HUDGEONS

We did a piece last year.
'Ingenue Dykes In Hollywood.'	Her
name got mentioned.

JACK

Is she?

HUDGEONS

Beats me.	Look, Jackie-Boy, a
friend of mine just sold some
reefer to Matt Reynolds.	He's
tripping the light fantastic with
Tammy Jordan at 2245 Maravilla,

Hollywood Hills.	It's right
around the corner.

JACK
You lost me, Sid.	Who?

HUDGEONS

Contract players at Metro.	You
pinch 'em.	I do you up feature in
the next issue.	Plus the usual

fifty cash.	Tell me, am I fucking
Santa Claus?

JACK
I need an extra fifty.	Two
patrolmen at twenty apiece and a
dime for the watch commander at
Hollywood Station.

HUDGEONS

Jack!	It's Christmas!

JACK
No.	It's felony possession of
marijuana.


EXT. 2245 MARAVILLA - NIGHT

WITH a VIEW of Grauman's Chinese. Jack and two uniformed patrolmen wait on the darkened street. An arc light has been set up. Hudgeons creeps back over from the house.

HUDGEONS
 
They're sitting in the dark,
goofing on the Christmas tree.

JACK

Stand there with your camera.
I'll stop here so you get
Grauman's Chinese in the

backgrouns.

HUDGEONS
I like it!	I like it!


INT. 2245 MARAVILLA - NIGHT

The arc light floods the living room about the same time that Jack kicks the door in. The room is caught flush: Christmas tree, a bag of weed on the couch, two kids necking in their BVDs. MATT REYNOLDS and TAMMY JORDAN.

JACK
Police!

EXT. 2245 MARAVILLA - NIGHT

Jack exits, hauling Jordan and Reynolds by the neck. Jack stops with Grauman's FRAMED behind him and Hudgeons CLICKS off several shots with his CAMERA.

HUDGEONS
Cut!	Wrap it!

Windows light up. Rubberneckers appear. Jack hands the kids to the patrolmen, heads back in with Hudgeons in tow.


INT. 2245 MARAVILLA - NIGHT

Jack scoops the pot, flips through an address book. A card falls out. "Fleur-de-Lis. Whatever you desire..." Jack looks from the card out the window at the kids being loaded into a black and white. They're both crying now.

HUDGEONS
(stantorian tone)
It's Christmas morning in the City

of Angels, and while decent
citizens sleep the sleep of the

righteous, hopheads prowl for
marijuana, not knowing that a man
is coming to stop them.	The free-

wheeling, big-time Big V,
celebrity crime-stopper, Jack
Vincennes, the scourge of
grasshoppers and junk fiends
everywhere.	You like it, Jackie-

Boy?

JACK
Yeah, it's subtle.
 
Sid hands him a President Grant 50.

HUDGEONS

Remember: you heard it first here,
off the record, on the Q.T. and
very Hush-Hush.


INT. HOLLYWOOD STATION - DISPATCH DESK - NIGHT

Suspects, mostly drunk and disorderly, are ushered through. Sgt. ED EXLEY, 30, bespectacled, is at the desk with a YOUNG OFFICER. Exley is an up-and-comer. Burning with ambition. The faster he rises through the ranks, the more resentment he leaves in his wake.

EXLEY
What's on the call sheet?

YOUNG OFFICER
A guy dressed as Santa has been
exposing himself to kids in Los
Feliz.	Apparently, sir, he's
decorated himself.

EXLEY

Decorated?

YOUNG OFFICER
With tinsel and plastic icicles
and... on his penis, sir.

EXLEY

I get the idea.	You got a
description?

YOUNG OFFICER
Of his penis, sir?


EXT. HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - HOLLYWOOD LIQUOR - NIGHT

Tinsel-trimmed photos of movie stars look down from the walls as the OWNER takes an order from LYNN BRACKEN.

LYNN

A case each of gin, Scotch, and
rum.	Everything top shelf.	None

of that watered-down stuff you
push on Errol Flynn.

OWNER
(laughs)
Sounds like a helluva party.

Her hair kerchiefed, Lynn waits as the Owner writes it up. There's glamour, a cat-girl grace about Lynn. She seems like she belongs up on the wall with the movie stars. Lynn looks across as Bud White heads toward the counter. Spotting her, Bud doesn't look so tough for a
 
moment.

OWNER
You want it delivered?

LYNN
Before five tomorrow.

The Owner spots Bud.	A big smile turns to a frown.

OWNER
I'll be right with you, Lynn.

The Owner begins indiscriminately loading hard liquor into a cardboard box, leaving Bud and Lynn to look at each other. Bud says the only thing he can think of.

BUD
Merry Christmas.

LYNN
Merry Christmas yourself, Officer.

BUD

That obvious, huh?

LYNN

(smiles sweetly)
It's practically stamped on your
forehead.

As the Owner bangs a case of liquor on the counter...


EXT. HOLLYWOOD LIQUOR - NIGHT

Bud exits with his booze, heads for the car. Something catches his eye. A woman in the rear passenger seat of a new Cadillac. SUSAN LEFFERTS. Both her eyes are black.

Bud starts over. The case on his hip, he motions for her to roll down the window. The driver's side door opens and bodyguard TURNER "BUZZ" MEEKS menaces his way out.

MEEKS
Get lost why don't you?

Meeks stops short as Bud shoves his badge in Meeks' face. Setting the case on the car's hood, Bud spins Meeks around, pats him down. He finds a .38 in a shoulder holster.

MEEKS
I got a license for that.

Bud removes Meeks' wallet, checks the ID.

MEEKS
Cut me some slack.	I used to be a
cop.
 
BUD
Turner Meeks?	Never heard of you.

LYNN

(exiting store)
We just call him Buzz.

Bud raps on Susan's window with his badge. It comes down.

BUD
You okay?

Beside her, a man leans over. Pierce Patchett, seen before at the freeway unveiling, is a man used to being chauffeured. Like FDR, he smokes his cigarette in a holder.

PATCHETT

She's fine.

BUD

(menacing)
I'm not asking you.

Patchett has no idea he's walking on thin ice. As he stares impatiently at Bud, Bud looks back to Susan.

BUD

Somebody hit you?

LYNN

It's not what you think.

Bud looks to see Lynn Bracken moving to the driver's door.

BUD
What is it then?

SUSAN
You got the wrong idea, Mister.
I'm fine.

Susan laughs.	Patchett eases back into the shadows.

LYNN

(getting in the car)
But it's nice to know you care.

Bud considers Meeks' gun license, then hands him back the .38 and wallet. Lifting his booze, Bud watches Meeks get back in the car.

Stensland steps up as the cabbie starts to pull away.

STENSLAND

What's going on?

For an odd moment, Stensland and Meeks lock eyes.
 
BUD
You know him?

STENSLAND

Seen him around.	He used to be a
cop.

CUT TO:


CLOSE ON DUDLEY SMITH

Fifty, handsome in his police captain's uniform. Singing "Silver Bells" in a beautiful low tenor. Tough, respected, Dudley goes to bed as a cop every night of his life. He's a department power to be reckoned with.


INT. PRECINCT HOUSE - MUSTER ROOM - NIGHT

An L.A. Herald Express REPORTER and photographer listen along with the gathered patrolmen as Dudley finishes to applause. Dudley joins the press.

REPORTER
Captain Smith, I --

DUDLEY
Drop the formalities; it's
Christmas Eve.	Call me Dudley.

REPORTER

Dudley, I came up with a title for
the story.	I'm calling it "Silent

Night with the L.A.P.D."

DUDLEY

Excellent.	How's this?
(dramatic pause)
The sanctity of the night is an
invitation to the darker criminal
element.	Our vigilance will not

be diminished.

As the Reporter scribbles down the quote...

DUDLEY

That's Smith with an S.

They laugh.	Dudley points the way out.

DUDLEY

This way, gentlemen.

Dudley's the last one out the door. As he goes, he turns back to give the men a wink. He's no sooner out the door when the first case of Johnny Walker is brought in.


INT. PRECINCT HOUSE - DISPATCH DESK - NIGHT
 
Ed Exley gets another report from the Young Officer.

YOUNG OFFICER
Two police officers were assaulted

in a bar.	Brown and Helenowski.

He hands the report to Exley. It's now that Dudley comes through on his press junket.

DUDLEY
This is Sergeant Ed Exley.	Son of
the legendary Preston Exley.	He's

the watch commander tonight and a
damn fine job.

As the photographer snaps Exley's picture...

DUDLEY
I was fortunate enough to be

partnered with his father when I
was a rookie.	It makes a man feel
old.	That's a fact.

(a beat)
Feel free to get a feel for the
place.

As the Reporter and photographer wander off, Dudley turns to Exley a bit more serious.

DUDLEY
A word with you, lad.


INT. DUDLEY SMITH'S OFFICE - DAY

Dudley pours two drinks, hands one to Exley.

DUDLEY
To the memory of your father.

They drink.	Exley looks to a photo on the wall.

Himself as a ten-year-old standing between Dudley and his father Preston, both in police uniform.

DUDLEY
The day he got the Medal of Valor.
A simpler time.

Remembering, Exley invokes his father's favorite toast.

EXLEY

To the solving of crimes that
require absolute justice.

Exley raises his glass, but Dudley just watches him.

DUDLEY
That was his favorite toast.
(a beat)
I saw the test results on the
 
lieutenant's exam.	You placed
first out of twenty-three.

EXLEY

The youngest applicant by eight
years.

DUDLEY
You'll make lieutenant inside a
year.	Patrol division?

EXLEY

I was thinking Detective Bureau.

We can see Dudley doesn't approve.

DUDLEY

You don't have the eye for human
weakness to be a good detective.

Or the stomach.	You're a
political animal, Edmund.

The criticism stings, but Dudley's a straight shooter.

EXLEY
You're wrong.

DUDLEY
Am I...?	Would you be willing to
plant corroborative evidence on a
suspect you knew was guilty in
order to ensure an indictment?

EXLEY

Dudley, we've been over this.

DUDLEY

Answer yes or no.

EXLEY
I... No.

DUDLEY
Would you be willing to rig crime
scene evidence to support a
prosecuting attorney's working
hypothesis...?	Yes or no, Edmund.

EXLEY

No.

DUDLEY

Would you be willing to beat
confessions out of suspects you
knew to be guilty?

EXLEY

No.

DUDLEY
Would you be willing to shoot
 
hardened criminals in the back to
offset the chance --

EXLEY

No.

DUDLEY

Then for God's sake, don't be a
detective.	Stick to assignments
where you won't have to make those
choices.	Patrol, Internal
Affairs, but not the Bureau.

EXLEY

I know you mean well, Dudley, but
I don't need to do it the way you
did.	Or my father.

DUDLEY

At least get rid of the glasses.
I can't think of one Bureau man
who wears them.


INT. PRECINCT HOUSE - MUSTER ROOM - NIGHT

A large impromptu bar has been set-up. The party is in full swing, the floor packed with nightwatch blues. A PHONOGRAPH SPEWS DIRTY CHRISTMAS CAROLS.

Stensland pours eggnog and Old Crow into the water cooler as Bud elbows his way in with another case.

STENSLAND

Hey, partner.	Grab a cup.

BUD

I got to write my report first.

PASSING COP #1
Hear about Helenowski and Brown?
They got into a helluva scrap with

six taco benders at some bar.
Helenowski lost six pints of
blood.	Brown's in a coma.

PASSING COP #2

We ought to teach Paco and his
friends a lesson.

More cops vocie their agreement.	Bottles are passed.
Only Bud doesn't seem as caught-up as the rest.


INT. PRECINCT HOUSE - NARCO PEN - NIGHT

Jack Vincennes at his desk. Holding the Fleur-de-Lis card, Jack dials the number. A corkboard on the wall is posted with press clippings. "Dope Crusader Wounded in Shootout." "Actor Mitchum Seized in Marijuana Shack Raid." That one includes a shot of Jack ushering Mitchum
 
into jail.

WOMAN (V.O.)
(over phone, like

silk)
Whatever you desire.

JACK
Hi... I'd like to get a delivery
to Beverly Hills.

WOMAN (V.O.)

(over phone)
I don't think I know you.

CLICK.	The line goes dead.	Jack redials.

WOMAN (V.O.)
(over phone)

Whatever you desire.

JACK

Look, a friend of mine gave me
this number.	I just --

The line goes dead again.	Jack dials a new number.

OPERATOR (V.O.)
(filtered)
Pacific Coast Bell.

JACK

This is Sgt. Vincennes.
Requesting a name and address on a

phone number.	Hollywood zero-one-
two-three-nine.

OPERATOR (V.O.)
(filtered)
Please hold the line... No such
number is assigned.

JACK
I just called it.

OPERATOR (V.O.)
No, Sergeant.	I checked twice.

JACK

(realizes, hangs up)
A bootleg...


INT. MUSTER ROOM - NIGHT

Exley surveys the carousing rowdies. Raising his voice...

EXLEY

All right, men.	You've had your
fun.	Time to break it up.
 
The party continues undiminished. From across the room, Stensland eyes Exley with disdain.

STENSLAND
Fucking Exley.	Guy's got a pole
so far up his ass, every time he

farts the flag waves.


WATCH COMMANDER'S OFFICE

The command not really his, Exley reads a report, ignores the party, though his window looks into the thick of it.

Suddenly a ripple goes through the room. The men begin to push out through a rear door. Exley stands, stops a COP.

EXLEY
What's going on?

COP
They got the spics who japped
Helenowski and Brown.	Helenowski
lost an eye and Brown's got brain
damage.

EXLEY

I have the report right here.
They're home with bruises and
muscle pulls -- Oh shit...

Exley starts out after them.


INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

Stensland in the lead. Pulling out a blackjack, he enters Cell #4, begins wailing on one of the Mexicans -- Dinardo.

STENSLAND
For ours, Pancho. And you're
getting off easy.

Cheered on by drunks in the tank and his fellow officers, Stensland goes wild. He's joined by Lentz, Crumley and Tristano. Shaking his head, Jack Vincennes moves away.


INT. SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

Bud types his report with one finger.	Jack looks in.

JACK
White, you better get a lease on

Stens before he kills someone.


INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT
 
Followed by Jack, Bud forces his way through the crowd.

The men who see it's him quickly clear a path.

Swigging from a pint of gin, Stensland works skinny GARCIA. Head saps. The kid drops to his knees drooling blood.

Bud grabs Stensland, hauls him off of Garcia who looks up.

GARCIA

Fuck you, pendejo.

BUD
Yeah yeah...

GARCIA
And fuck your mother too.

Bud sees red. Letting go of Stensland, Bud White picks up Garcia by the neck. There are cheers, "Attaboys" and "Holy Fucks" as Bud bangs Garcia's head on the ceiling.

EXLEY
(arriving)
Stop, Officer!	That's an order!

Cops block Exley's way. As Bud looks over, Garcia kicks him in the balls. A dangling shot. Bud keels into the bars, Garcia stumbles out of the cell, smack into Jack.

Jack looks down aghast at blood on his cashmere blazer, then puts Garcia down with a left-right.

Exley pulls a pad of paper and pen form his pocket.

EXLEY
You're going in my report!	All of
you!

Exley has just started taking names when Bud grabs him by the scruff of the neck and hauls him off balance into...


HALL

As Exley struggles, a cop opens the door to the store room. Bud slings Exley inside, then slams the door tight. Exley is locked in. As Bud moves off, we hear POUNDING.

EXLEY (V.O.)
Let me out!	That's an order!


CELL BLOCK

The Herald Reporter and photographer enter unchaperoned and unnoticed. Stensland swings like a madman. That's when a flashbulb goes off. Freezing everyone in black
 
and white.

DISSOLVE TO:


INT. CHIEF'S OFFICE - DAY

The CHIEF sits behind a desk in a four-star uniform. Dudley Smith sits to his left, D.A. Ellis Loew to his right. Seen earlier at the Mickey Cohen press conference, Loew is the only civilian. Bud White stands across from them. There to be judged.

CHIEF

Officer White, you've refused to
cooperate with Internal Affairs.
But you should know this is bigger

than a police board.	Indictments
may be handed down.	Quite

frankly, we need police witnesses
to offset the damage done to the
Department's image.	Will you

testify?

Bud glances to a gray tinted mirror, then to the Chief.

BUD

No, sir.	I won't.

The Chief sighs, looks to Loew.

CHIEF

District Attorney Loew.

Loew steps to Bud, holds up a newspaper with the cell block photo. The headline: "BLOODY CHRISTMAS."

LOEW
Bloody Christmas.	The press love
to label.	You and Officer
Stensland brought the liquor into
the precinct.	Stensland was

already drunk.	Do you see how
appearing as a voluntary witness
against him could offset the
damage you've done to yourself?

BUD
I won't do it.

(staring at mirror)
I won't testify against my partner
or anyone else.

LOEW

This man is a disgrace.

CHIEF

Your badge and gun, Officer.

Bud sets them on The Chief's desk.
 
CHIEF
This is the new L.A.P.D., White.
You're suspended from duty and
dismissed.

Turning, White shoots the mirror a stiff middle finger as he makes his way out. Dudley Smith hides a smile.


OTHER SIDE OF GLASS

Exley watches, involuntarily leans back as Bud passes on the other side of the glass.


THE CHIEF'S OFFICE

Dudley, Loew and The Chief wait as Exley enters.

CHIEF
Ed, your observations have been
astute.	What's your assessment of

this situation?

EXLEY
The public demands justice, sir.
This was a full-fledged riot of

policemen.	Shift the guilt to men
whose pensions are secured.	Force
them to retire.	But someone has
to swing.	Indict, try and convict
Stensland and Bud White.	Secure

them jail time.	Feed them to the
sharks, sir.	Protect yourself;

protect the department.

Dudley gives Exley a look.	He's angry with him.

DUDLEY

Stensland's a disgrace.	Straight
D fitness reports from every C.O.
he ever served under.	But White

is a valuable officer.

EXLEY
White's a mindless thug.

DUDLEY
No, Edmund.	He's a man who can

answer yes to those questions I
ask you from time to time.

The Chief interrupts with his own concern.

CHIEF
I want to know who we give the
public in contrast?	The

department needs role models.
Clean-cut, forthright men the
public can admire.
 
EXLEY
I'll testify, sir.	I'm not afraid
to do what's right.

CHIEF
And I'll promote you.	You'll be a
lieutenant immediately.

Exley seizes the moment, going over Dudley's head.

EXLEY
Detective lieutenant.

The Chief and Dudley exchange a look.	Neither approves.

CHIEF
Ed, you're 30.	Your father didn't
make lieutenant until he was 33.

EXLEY
I know that, sir.	I also know
that when he made lieutenant, it

was as a detective.

LOEW
(interrupting)
Before we start polishing our

laurels, it would look better if
we had a corroborative witness.

DUDLEY
That'll be hard to come by.	The
men hate a turncoat.

EXLEY
Jack Vincennes.	He's the
technical advisor on 'Badge of

Honor,' sir.	He lives for it.
That's the way to get him.

CHIEF
All right, Ed.
(into desk
intercom)
Call Sergeant Vincennes.

As Exley starts out, Dudley pulls him aside, speaks low.

DUDLEY

You'll reap the benefits, but are
you truly prepared to be despised
within the department?

EXLEY

Yes, Dudley.	I am.

DUDLEY

So be it.
 


JACK VINCENNES
 
Looking sharp, he strides down the hall, enters the...


CHIEF'S OFFICE

Round two.	Centred on Jack.	Exley is gone.

DUDLEY

Sergeant, we'll get right to it.
Nine civilian witnesses have
identified you as hitting Ezekiel

Garcia.

LOEW
But my office has a stellar
witness who will tell the grand

jury that you hit back only after
being hit.

JACK
What do I have to do?

LOEW

Testify against the three officers
who have already earned their
pensions.	Our key witness will

testify roundly, but you can plead
ignorance to questions directed at
the other men.

CHIEF

I'll guarantee you a slap on the
wrist.	A brief suspension

followed by a temporary transfer
from Narcotics to Ad Vice.
(a beat)

When you transfer out of Vice,
you'll be back on the show.

JACK
The show, sir?

CHIEF

Badge of Honor, Vincennes.	We
need to tone down your profile for
a bit.

The Chief just got Jack where he lives.

DUDLEY
John, I doubt you've ever drawn a
stupid breath.	Don't start now.

JACK
Okay.	I'll do it.

Smiles all around. Loew smiles at the two-way. A move not lost on Jack who wonders who might be on the other side.
 
CHIEF
Dismissed, Vincennes.

Jack leaves. The Chief steps to the mirror, looks through.

CHIEF

So be it.	Detective Lieutenant.


OTHER SIDE OF GLASS

Exley clenches his fist in victory.	The Chief continues.

CHIEF
Ace them at the grand jury
tomorrow, son.	Wear the smart-

looking suit and ace them.	And,
Ed?	Lose the glasses.


INT. ROOM 114 (GRAND JURY WITNESS ROOM) - DAY

Glasses off, Exley waits, looks up as Jack enters.

JACK
You're the key witness?

EXLEY

That's right.

JACK

I should've known.	What's the
Chief throwing you?

EXLEY
Throwing me?

JACK

Yeah, Exley.	What's the payoff?

EXLEY

You're the payoff expert.	I'm
just doing my duty.

JACK
You're playing an angle, college
boy.	You're getting something out
of this so you don't have to

hobnob with the fucking rank and
file cops who'll hate your guts
for snitching.	If they're making

you a detective, watch out.	Some
Bureau guys are gonna burn in this
and you're gonna have to work with
friends of theirs.

EXLEY
What about you?

JACK
 
I'm snitching three old timers
who'll be fishing in Oregon next
week.	Next to you I'm clean.	And
smart.

At that, a CLERK steps in from the hallway.

CLERK
Edmund J. Exley to chambers.

As Exley's about to go...

JACK
Just remember, Bud White'll fuck
you for this if it takes the rest
of his life.	They already
suspended him.	Just pray he cops

a deal and stays on the Department
because that is one civilian you

do not want on your case.


INT. TWILIGHT LOUNGE - NIGHT

An old black guy in a frayed, threadbare tux plays piano. Bud, nursing a highball at the bar, steps over to a REDHEAD with too much make-up on too many miles.

BUD

That an old fashioned you're
drinking?
(as she nods)

My name's Bud.

REDHEAD
Nobody was born with the name Bud.

BUD
They stick you with a name like
Wendell, you look for an alias.

REDHEAD

What do you do, Bud?

BUD
I'm sorta between jobs.	Look,
what do you say we, uh...

A hand on Bud's shoulder.	He turns to see Dudley Smith.

DUDLEY
Lad, may I have a word with you?

BUD

This business, Captain?

DUDLEY

Say goodnight to your friend and
join me by those back tables.

Dudley starts off.	Bud turns back to Redhead, but she's
 
already talking to a sailor.


BOOTH

Dudley sits at a table. A newspaper is opened, a little mound underneath. Bud joins Dudley.

BUD

Does that paper say we've been
indicted?	Does it say Exley's a
hero for squealing me and

Stensland off?

DUDLEY
He made his play amd he got what
he wanted.	They're making him a

detective.

BUD
Captain, what do you want?

DUDLEY
Call me Dudley.

BUD
Dudley, what do you want?

DUDLEY

Lad, I admire your refusal to
testify and your loyalty to your
partner.	I admire you as a

policeman, particularly your
adherence to violence as a

necessary adjutant to the job.
And I am most impressed with your
punishment of wife beaters.	Do

you hate them, Wendell?

BUD
(looks away)
Yeah, I hate them.

DUDLEY

And for good reason judging from
what I know of your background.

Bud looks back over.	Dudley's getting too personal.

BUD
What's going to happen to
Stensland?	He'll give himself

cirrhosis over this.	He's one
year from his pension.

DUDLEY
It would've happened years ago if

you hadn't carried him.	Why the
loyalty, Wendell?

BUD
 
He helped me out once.	That's all.

DUDLEY
Your partner's through.

Department scapegoat on the
Chief's orders.	He's been billed,
he'll be indicted and he'll swing.

BUD

Him and me both.	Fucking Exley.

DUDLEY

Don't underestimate his skills.
As a politician he exceeds even
myself.	But the department needs
smart men like Exley and... direct
men like yourself

BUD

What do you want?

DUDLEY

Wendell, I want you to come to
work for me.

BUD
Doing what?	Mowing your fucking
lawn?

Smith yanks the newspaper revealing Bud's badge & .38 Special. Bud can't believe his eyes.

DUDLEY
They're yours.	Take them.

BUD
I knew you had juice, but...
There's no goddamn bill on me?

DUDLEY
Four of the defendants recanted
their testimony.

BUD

How?

Dudley dismisses the question with a wave of his hand.

DUDLEY

I need you for an assignment the
Chief's given me the go-ahead on.
A duty few men are fit for, but

you were born for.	You'll be
working out of Homicide.

BUD
(excited)

Homicide?	A detective?

CHIEF
Your talents lie elsewhere,
 
Wendell.	It's a muscle job and
shooting job.	You'll do what I
say and not ask questions.	Do you
follow my drift?

BUD
(disappointed)
In Technicolor.

DUDLEY
Will you work for me?

BUD
Of course... But how?

DUDLEY
How what, Wendell?

BUD

How'd you get them to retract?

Dudley lays brass knuckles on the table. They're chipped, caked with blood.

DISSOLVE TO:


L.A. MONTAGE

Over the pop song "STRANGER IN PARADISE."

A)	EXT. GRAUMAN'S CHINESE - NIGHT

Frank Sinatra at the premiere of From Here to Eternity.

B)	INT. KLUB ZAMBOANGA - NIGHT

Charlie "Bird" Parker makes magic before an appreciative, mostly black crowd.

C)	TORCH SONG TAVERN (RIVERSIDE) - NIGHT

Nate Janklow exits with his latest flame. A mob lieutenant, Nate was last seen with Mickey Cohen outside the Federal Courthouse in the opening montage. A CAR SCREECHES up. TWO GUNS aim and Nate and his date do down in a proverbial HAIL OF LEAD.

D)	EXT. FREEWAY - DAY

A groundbreaking. The Mayor scrapes at the ground with a gold shovel. Pierce Patchett is among the distinguished guests.

END OF MONTAGE


EXT. HOLLYWOOD HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

The marquee gushes:	"Today Sgt. Joe Reno:	Badge of
 
Honor Star Brett Chase."


INT. HOLLYWOOD HIGH SCHOOL - AUDITORIUM - DAY

A nerdy 14-YEAR-OLD asks Brett Chase:

14-YEAR-OLD
Why'd you become a policeman?

CHASE
I'm not a policeman.	I just play
one on television.	But I think I
can answer for them.	To help
people.	That's why I do the show.

Chase looks over and winks at Jack who waits in the wings.

CHASE
To protect and serve.	It's not
just a motto.

As the kids applaud, Chase joins Jack who gives him a quick drag of a cigarette. A nervous PA joins them. Chase points out a fetching girl in the second row.

CHASE
That one.	In the sweater.
(to Jack)
They also serve who only stand and
wait.

Chase and Jack watch the PA ask "Sweater" a question while pointing to Chase. Maybe sixteen, she nods "yes" eagerly.
