AUDREY
Let's define "fair." Last

•	night a five-year old boy was crushed because his father lied to him about coming to his birthday party. Fair?

FLETCHER
Last night--

AUDREY
--	Was none of my business.
When it happened two years ago it was my business, but now I don't have to care anymore.

See, that's the magic of divorce. But it does matter to Max. Everything you do matters to him... and everything you don't do.

FLETCHER
All right-- now let me tell
you something...you're
absolutely right.	I'm guilty
of all charges. I'm throwing
myself on the mercy of your
-court.

Audrey doesn't know what to say. Fletcher seems very sincere, but she can't trust him.

FLETCHER {CONT'D)
I have an idea. I'll come
over tonight, right after
court lets out and play with
Max. Have him invite some
friends over. We'll have a
game and everything. Then,
you and I can sit down and
talk.

AUDREY
We're suppose to be on a plane
tonight--

FLETCHER
No, Audrey. Just talk to me
about this first. Please.
Audrey, I've lost you. Don't
make me lose Max, too.

AUDREY
You're really coming?
 
FLETCHER
This is iron-clad. This is
the mother of all promises.
What time?

AUDREY
...Six?

FLETCHER
Ten-to-six.

AUDREY
(unsure)
All right... only if I tell
Max you're coming and you
don't show up and I have to
see that look on Max's face --
that heartbreaking look-- it's
Boston, Fletcher.

FLETCHER.
I will be there.

As Audrey gets in her car -- .

AUDREY
I hope so. Do you know what
your son was doing at nine-
fifteen last night? He was
making a wish on his birthday
cake. He was wishing that,
for just one day, his dad
couldn't tell a lie.

She drives away. Fletcher starts for his car, pensive, when a new thought strikes him.

FLETCHER
Oh my God! That-'s it! An
innocent kid - - a  heartfelt
plea-- a birthday wish!	Sure,
it's impossible --but it
'makes sense!..! If he can wish
it, he can unwish it!

INT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL HALLWAY

Fletcher marches quickly down the hall, cake box under his arm.

INT. MAX'S KINDERGARTEN CLASS
 

Ms. Berry's reading a story when Fletcher enters. Max brightens.
 
MAX
Dad!

MS. BERRY
Are you Max's dad? I ' m Ms.
Berry, Max's teacher!

FLETCHER
Hi.	Listen, I need to talk to
Max--

MS. BERRY
Mr. Reid, we were just talking
about careers. You're a
lawyer, aren't you?

FLETCHER
(wary)
Yes.

MAX
Mr. Reid it'would be wonderful
for the children to hear
something positive about
lawyers!

FLETCHER
Well, actually-- •

MS. BERRY
Children! .Mr. Reid is going
to tell us what it's like to
be a lawyer.

She leads the kids in APPLAUSE. Fletcher takes center stage. The children stare, rapt with attenion.

FLETCHER
Uh, hi. Uh, I'm a lawyer and
I work at a big law firm with
a lot of other lawyers and I
do stuff in a law court.
Thank you.

He starts out.

MS. BERRY
One moment, Mr. Reid. Maybe
some of the children have
questions
(hands shoot up)
Jeffrey?
 
JEFF
What kind of lawyer are you?

FLETCHER
Mostly, I'm  a divorce lawyer.

BILLY
What's that?

FLETCHER
It means if you're daddy left
your mommy, he'd call me.

CRAIG
So what do you do?

FLETCHER
(growing more and
more impatient)
I help people fight over their
money and their children.

THEODORE
Can't they fight without you?

FLETCHER ' "
They could but then J wouldn't
make a living.

JILL
Why would my daddy leave my
mommy?

FLETCHER
To marry a younger woman. To
escape a loveless marriage and
have cheap meaningless sex.
To cling to an illusion of
youth as his body gives way to
sore backs, flat feet, spare
tires, gum disease, hair loss,
liver spots, kidney stones,
clogged arteries, diabetes,
goiter and eventual death.

The kids EYES GO WIDE. A moment, then:

MS. BERRY
(brightly)
Well, I think it's time for
fingerpainting.

EXT. PLAYGROUND - DAY
 

They're in the playground just outside the classroom.
 
FLETCHER
Monster-Max.

MAX
Dadzilla.	You came to play
catch?

FLETCHER
No.	I' d like to, but I can't
right now.

Max is disappointed again.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
I ' m  sorry I missed your party
last night. How was your
Uncle Glen?

MAX
Stupid. His big nose and
stupid orange hair...

FLETCHER
That's why he should have worn
make-up.

Fletcher elbows Max, playfully, trying to induce a laugh.
Max doesn't laugh.

'	MAX .
I want to play kickball with
my friends.-

FLETCHER
Yeah, okay, urn... Your mother
told me about... the wish you
made last night.	It came
true.

Max is amazed.

MAX
Really? You mean you have to
tell the truth?

FLETCHER
Yes.

MAX
No matter what?
 

FLETCHER
No matter what.
 
Max grins -- then suddenly asks, in rapid succession.

MAX
Is wrestling real?

FLETCHER
In the Olympics, yes.	On	.
Channel 23, no.

MAX
Will sitting close to the TV
set make me go blind?

FLETCHER
Not in a million years.

MAX
If I keep making this face--
(makes a horrible
face)
will it get stuck that way?

FLETCHER
Uh-uh.

MAX
.If I go in the water right
after lunch, will I drown?

FLETCHER
Only if you can't 'swim.

MAX
Why do I have to eat squash?

FLETCHER
Because your mom buys it.

MAX
How come you're always too
busy to play with me?

The sudden shift in tone startles Fletcher. He feels awful.

FLETCHER
I . . .  I don't know.  I ' m .. . Hey,
you know I'm coming over
tonight. We're gonna play
together.

MAX
Baseball?
 
FLETCHER
. Yes! This is absolutely an A-number one promise. You and I -- tonight -- baseball.

Fletcher and Max do their ritual "five" slap.

FLETCHER
Now, listen, Max, I need a
favor from you.	I 'm in a
little trouble today.	I need
you to take that wish back.

MAX
So you can lie?

FLETCHER
Not to you.

MAX
To who?

FLETCHER
Max, sometimes grownups...
need to lie.	It's hard to
explain, but i f . . . Look,
here's an example. When Mommy
was pregnant with you, she
gained a little weight.
Seventy pounds. I thought she
was gonna give birth to a car.
But she'd say to me "How do I
look?" So I'd say, "Oh,
honey, you're beautiful,
you're glowing.11  Otherwise, I
would've hurt Mommy's
feelings. Understand?

Max nods.

MAX
You didn't think she was
beautiful.

FLETCHER
Right. No... Max, I don't
know how to get along in the
grown-up world if I have to
stick to the truth.	I could
lose my case, I could lose my
promotion, I could even lose,
my job... Do you understand?

Max shakes his head "no."
 
FLETCHER (CONT'D)
Will you help me anyway?

A moment -- then Max reluctantly nods.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
That's my boy!

Fletcher opens the box, revealing a cake and candles.... He
takes out two birthday hats. He puts one on Max and one on himself.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
Now, do whatever you did last
night... only this time, make
an un-wish.

Not really happy, Max turns to the candles on the cake. He takes a breath-- and blows them out.

MAX
I did it. ^

FLETCHER
Great!	Great!	Now to test --
•

Fletcher spots an attractive FEMALE teacher. Fletcher hurries to her and says something. A moment. Then she SLAPS HIM.

Fletcher returns to his son.

MAX
Did it work?

FLETCHER	.	.
(rubbing his sore
cheek)
Not like I' d  hoped. Did you
really unwish it?

Max nods.

MAX
Only...

FLETCHER
Only what?

MAX
Yesterday, when I wished it, I
really meant it. This time
when I unwished it I only did
it 'cause you told me to.
 
FLETCHER
(losing patience)
Well, then do it again.	Only
this time, mean it.

MAX
I can't.

FLETCHER
Why not?!

MAX
Because I don't want you to
lie.

FLETCHER
I explained this to you!	I
have to lie. Everybody lies!
Mommy lies, even the wonderful
Jerry lies--
'
MAX
But you're the only one who
makes me feel bad.

.	'	.	•	•
Fletcher is stunned by how much this hurts.

MS. BERRY
(calling)
Max, recess 'is over, come on
in.

MAX
I have to go.

FLETCHER
I am coming over, tonight,
Max. You believe me, don't
you?

Max hesitates, then nods.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
I'll see you tonight, buddy...
That's a promise.

Max heads back to class. Fletcher picks up the cake, looks at it, then dumps it in a trash barrel.

EXT. SKYSCRAPER - DAY
 

A worried and preoccupied Fletcher is heading toward his office building when a MACHO ATTORNEY passes by.
 
MACHO ATTORNEY
Yo, Fletcher!	How's it
hanging?

FLETCHER
Short and shrivelled.

Fletcher hurries up the steps when he spots Philip. He shields his face with his briefcase. Philip recognizes him anyway.

PHILIP
Fletcher!	I'm still waiting
for your call.	I guess you
must've lost my card --

FLETCHER
No --

PHILIP
Or my phone was busy —

FLETCHER
No --

•

PHILIP
Or you just forgot --

FLETCHER
No --

PHILIP
(cannot be
discouraged)
Or something.	So anyway,' why
don't you swing by my place
around seven-thirty!

Philip starts off, when Fletcher calls after him resolutely.

FLETCHER
Philip... I don't want to come
over to your house!

A long moment, then --

PHILIP
Fine! We'll go out! There's
this new karaoke bar I've been
dying to try.	I'll pick you
up at your office! Seven-
thirty! !

And he runs off.	Frustrated, Fletcher hurries on.
 
INT. OFFICE'S - DAY

Fletcher drags himself past Greta's desk. Miranda gives him the stink-eye. Fletcher doesn't see her.

GRETA
Do you want your messages?

FLETCHER
No.

He goes into his office. Greta is concerned. She follows him in, leaving his door open.

INT. FLETCHER'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Fletcher collapses onto his couch. Greta enters.

GRETA
Are you okay?

FLETCHER
My son hates me.

GRETA
No!	He loves you.	I've seen
you together. You're his
hero.

FLETCHER
Oh yeah? Last night at his
birthday party, he made a
•wish. That I wouldn't be able
to tell a lie for one whole
day.

GRETA
Kids...

FLETCHER
It came true.

GRETA
What?

FLETCHER
It's true. Didn't it seem odd
to you that I kept telling the
truth all morning?

GRETA
Well, yeah, but...
 
(incredulous)
You're telling me that you
can't lie.

FLETCHER
That's right!	I am incapable
of lying.

INT. OUTER OFFICE

Miranda is 'eavesdropping.	A wicked gleam in her eye

INT. FLETCHER'S OFFICE

GRETA
Just today?

FLETCHER
Apparently until 9:15 tonight.
It's a twenty-four hour curse.

GRETA
Yes, those are going around.

FLETCHER
You don't believe me.

GRETA
Of course not.

FLETCHER
Go ahead. Ask me something
I'd normally lie about.

She thinks.

GRETA
All right. Remember a few
months ago, I wanted a raise--

FLETCHER
(quickly)
Forget it. Let's not do this.

GRETA
--	and the firm wouldn't.give me one. And I asked you if you would give it to me out of your own pocket and you said the company wouldn't permit it because it creates jealousy among the other secretaries? Was that true or did you just not want to pony up the dough?
 
INT. OUTER OFFICE

Greta is emptying all her personal effects into boxes. She's leaving. Fletcher is on the phone and looks very harras,sed.

FLETCHER
Greta, please...
(into phone)
Yes Judge Stevens, hi!..
Fletcher Reid.	I'm scheduled
to be in your court in half-
an-hour... Judge Stevens, I
badly, badly need a
continuance. . .	so I can go
home and stay there the rest
of the day...111? Am I ill?

He wants to say "yes", but he can't.

FLETCHER
In a way.
(covers the
mouthpiece)
Please, lie to him for me.

Greta holds up a framed photograph.

GRETA
I remember when you. bought me
this silver frame. From
Tiffany's.
(questioning)
. . .	Tiffany's?

FLETCHER
Jumbo's House of Junk.

She thrpws it in the trash and keeps packing.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
I'll give you the raise!

GRETA
(gives him the
finger)
Here's your raise.

FLETCHER
(into phone)
Hi, Judge Stevens?... Yes, I
know I haven't given you a
reason.
 

The PHONE RINGS.
 
FLETCHER (CONT'D)
(into phone)
But if you could just do this
for me, I--

The phone won't stop ringing.	. • '

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
Hold on, please,
(pushes two
buttons)
Hello... Mom!!

The phone flies into the air. He catches it.

FLETCHER {CONT'D)
Mom... Well, I wasn't actually
on vacation... Because I
didn't want to talk to you...
Because you insist on talking
to me about Dad's bowel
movements -- size, color,
frequency... I'll call you
later... No, not really.

He pushes -two more buttons. Then SCREAMS.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
Oh dammit!	I cut him off!	I
cut off the Judge! Greta...

He falls to his knees.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
I'm on my knees in a nine
hundred dollar suit. Don't
leave.

Greta stops.	She seems to consider.

GRETA
A few years ago a friend of
mine had a burglar up on her
roof.

FLETCHER
Yes?

GRETA	..
A burglar. -He fell through
the kitchen skylight and
landed on a cutting board on a
butcher's knife, cutting his
leg. He sued my friend. The
 
burglar sued my friend.
Thanks to guys like you-- he
won. My friend had to pay him
six thousand dollars.	Is that
justice?

FLETCHER
No. . .  but what' s your poijit!

GRETA
My point is, it's hard to get
justice.	But this is justice,
(pinches his
cheek)
Have a nice day in court,
bubbie.

She leaves.	Fletcher starts to give chase...

FLETCHER
Greta--

He runs directly into Miranda.

FLETCHER
Aaaah!

Miranda smiles like a cat that's trapped a mouse.

MIRANDA
Ah, Fletcher, so nice to bump
into you. Are you busy?

FLETCHER
Extremely.

MIRANDA
Good. Would you follow me,
please?

Highly nervous, Fletcher follows Miranda down the hall. MIRANDA (CONT'D)
Fletcher, did you know that
the partnership committee is
being headed up by Mr. Allan
himself?
(off his wary
nod)
Say, you used to work directly
for Mr. Allan, didn't you?
(off his waried
nod)
Tell me, what do you think of
him?
 
FLETCHER
(helpless)
He's a pedantic,
pontificating, pretentious
bastard, a belligerent old
fart, a worthless, steaming
pile of cow dung.

MIRANDA
(grinning)
How delightful!

She swings open a door, ushering Fletcher into -- INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

The room is filled with ATTORNEYS, including MR. ALLAN, the founder himself. Fletcher freezes.

MIRANDA
Pardon me for interrupting
your, meeting. Mr. Allan, you
remember Fletcher Reid.

•

MR. ALLAN
•It's good to see you again,
Fletcher. '.

An involuntary WHIMPER from Fletcher.

MIRANDA
Oh, that's right. You used to
work together. .Tell me, what
do you think of Mr. Allah?

Fletcher gulps. This is it. His career is history. He's trying to hold it back, but--

MIRANDA
I said... What do you think of
Mr. Allan?

FLETCHER	.
He's a pedantic,
pontificating, pretentious
bastard, a belligerent old
fart, a worthless, steaming
pile of cow dung.

DEAN SILENCE. Then --Mr. Allan bursts into raucous LAUGHTER. He is joined by everyone except Miranda, who looks on, STUNNED. Everyone pounds the table in hysterics.
 
MR. ALLAN
Marvelous!	Marvelous!	That's
what I love most about this
firm-- the collegial
atmosphere, the hearty good-
fellowship!

Miranda is incensed.

MR. ALLAN (CONT'D)
And thanks for those flowers
for my anniversary. My wife
loved them.

FLETCHER
Well, I'm due in court... bye-
bye.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Fletcher exits the conference, closes the door, breathes a sigh of relief, then FAINTS. .

INT. COURTROOM

CLOSE UP of Fletcher, seated alone at a table. His hands are on his-face. He looks totally dazed. At the other table, sit Dana Appleton and Mr. Cole.

BAILIFF
All rise.

They do. Judge Stevens enters. He sits. Everyone sits.

JUDGE STEVENS
Counselors, are we ready to
begin?

FLETCHER
(eagerly and a
little too
loudly)
No sir! We are not ready to
begin. My client has not
arrived.

The doors OPEN and Virginia Cole enters with her CHILDREN and a NANNY.

FLETCHER	•	.
--	until now.
 

He collapses into his chair.
 
(to Falk, with
determination)
Did you and Mrs. Cole ever
make lo-- forni-- roll in the
h-- make the beast with two
ba-- Did you two ever fu--
fu-- Fu!

He begins to hyperventilate.	Virginia turns to Falk.

VIRGINIA
Water! Get him water!

Falk hurries into the building as Fletcher hacks on.

FLETCHER
Fu-- fu--

/
VIRGINIA
Sit down! Get some air!
(slaps him on the
back)
Try to relax! Breathe deeply!

Falk hurries out with a cup, hands it to Fletcher, who downs it in one gulp -- then spews it out again, SCREAMING in PAIN. -

VIRGINIA (CONT'D)
What?!	What?!

FALK
I couldn't find any water, so
I got him coffee!

Fletcher runs up and down the steps, frantically fanning his scalded mouth. The bailiff appears.

BAILIFF
Judge is taking the bench.

Fletcher's expression turns to terror.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

The judge settles in. Mr. Allan and a smug Miranda look on from the gallery.

JUDGE STEVENS
You may proceed, Mr. Reid. .

Everyone turns to Fletcher in anticipation. In a voice quaking with fear...
 
VIRGINIA
Sorry.	One of the kids threw
up in the car.

Virginia takes her seat, leaving her two young children sitting dejectedly in the gallery with their nanny.

FLETCHER
(incredulous
whisper)
You brought your kids. . .	to
your divorce?

VIRGINIA
(by way of
explanation)
Sympathy.

FLETCHER
Well, it's working.	I feel
sorry for them already.

The judge BANGS the gavel.

JUDGE STEVENS
Ms. Appleton, you may begin.

CUT TO:

Dana Appleton questions BRYSON, a private investigator. Fletcher watches with mounting anxiety, NERVOUSLY DRINKS from a GLASS OF WATER at his table.

BRYSON
(referring to his
notes)

--	From March six through June twelve, I surveilled Mrs. Cole at the behest of Mr. Cole.

During that period, I noted that Mr. Cole left each day between seven-forty and seven-fifty. Thereafter, Mrs. Cole would frequently have a male visitor arrive and stay for one to four hours. I was able to take several photographs of the male visitor.

He shows a photo -- of a strapping hunk. Fletcher TAKES A
HUGE DRINK.	.

DANA
 
I see. And do you .know what
Mrs. Cole and her male visitor
 
did during their frequent...
visits?

BRYSON
Well, they were pretty good
about keeping the shades drawn

--	but I sure was able to hear. I made an audiotape of one such., "session."

He hands her the tape. Fletcher refills his glass.

DANA
With the Court's permission, I
would like to play the tape.

FLETCHER
Your Honor, I object!

JUDGE STEVENS
And why is that, Mr. Reid?

FLETCHER
(can't help
himself)
Because it's devastating to my
•case.

The judge is startled by his candor.

JUDGE STEVENS
Overruled..

As Dana pops the tape into a player, Fletcher anxiously DOWNS THE GLASS.

Periodically CUTTING to Virginia, Mr. Cole, Dan and the thirsty Fletcher, we hear Virginia and her visitor engaged in intense physical activity.

MALE VISITOR (O.S.)
So, what did you say? You
ready?

VIRGINIA (O.S.)
Oh boy am I ready.

MALE VISITOR (O.S.)
Good.	Let me help you off
with that.	Come on, lie down.

VIRGINIA (O.S.)
Wait a minute. Do you have
protection?
 
MALE VISITOR (O. S. )
Right here.	Okay, now I 'm
gonna show you something new.

VIRGINIA (O.S.)
Oh, I've never done it like
this before.	. • .

MALE VISITOR (O.S.)
Don't worry, you can take it.
Oh yeah.	That's it.	There
you go.	Yes!	Yes!

WE HEAR labored rhythmic breathing.

MALE VISITOR (O.S) (CONT'D)
Yes, yes, yes --

As Dana fast-forwards again, then resumes... with still more labored breathing, building intensity and --

MALE VISITOR (O.S.) (CONT'D)
Oh yeah, bring it on .home --
yes! Yes! Yes!

VIRGINIA (O.S.)
Yes! YES! YES!

The groans reach their incredible climax. There's a still moment. . .

As the shy COURT REPORTER, the macho BAILIFFS and the no-nonsense judge all mop their brows, Dana shuts off the tape. She turns to Fletcher with a satisfied smile.

DANA
Your witness.

FLETCHER
No questions.

JUDGE STEVENS
No questions? .

VIRGINIA
No questions?

FLETCHER
(afraid to ask
any)
No questions.

DANA
 
(triumphant)

Petitioner rests.
 
JUDGE STEVENS
All right, Mr. Reid. You may
proceed.

FLETCHER
(to himself)
How?!

Gathering his courage, he stands, downs the last of his water, and moves to the lecturn. He's about to speak... when a WONDERFUL FEELING sweeps through him.

After a momement, he grins.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
Would the Court be willing to
grant me a short bathroom
break?

JUDGE STEVENS
It can't wait?

FLETCHER
Not unless you want to mop up.

JUDGE STEVENS
(frustrated)
All right, but get back in
here immediately so .we can
finish this.

Fletcher beams. Then necessity compels him to race out. INT. REST ROOM - DAY

Fletcher stands before the urinal, taking the longest leak in legal history. Relief. Then, he looks at his watch. It's only 4:15. '

FLETCHER
What did I think? That I
could piss for forty-five
minutes?!

He HITS HIS FOREHEAD in frustration... and gets an idea. He HITS HIMSELF AGAIN and AGAIN, SMASHES HIS HEAD INTO THE WALL, POKES HIMSELF IN THE EYES, YANKS ON HIS EARS, finally KNOCKS HIMSELF IN THE STALL, where he continues his attack.

A MAN enters, hears a commotion from behind the stall door.

MAN
What's going on in-there?
 
FLETCHER (O.S.)
I'm abusing myself!	Do you
mind?!

The man looks disgusted. He carefully leaves the room. INT. COURTROOM - DAY

The judge is PISSED. Suddenly the bailiff helps in the severly beaten Fletcher. The entire courtroom is SHOCKED.

BAILIFF
I found him like this in the
bathroom. Somebody beat the
hell out of him.

JUDGE STEVENS
Who did this?

FLETCHER
(truthfully)
A madman, Your Honor.. A
desperate fool at the end of
his pitiful.rope.

JUDGE STEVENS
-What did he look like?

FLETCHER
(describing
himself)
About five eleven, hundred
eighty-five pounds, crazed
look in his eye.

JUDGE STEVENS
Bailiff, have the deputies
search the building.

A HUBBUB rises. He bangs the gavel.

JUDGE STEVENS (CONT'D)
Under the circumstances, I
have no choice but to recess
this case until tomorrow
morning at nine.

Fletcher smiles serenly -- until --

JUDGE STEVENS (CONT'D)
--	Unless, of course, you think you can still proceed?

Fletcher covers his mouth in a desperate attempt to avoid answering, but he can't repress the truth.
 
JUDGE STEVENS (CONT'D)
Can you?

FLETCHER
Yes, I can.

JUDGE STEVENS
Splendid.	I admire your
courage, Mr. Reid.	I'll give
you a few minutes to compose
yourself, and then we'll get
started.

Fletcher looks as if he has just been sentenced to death. EXT. COURTHOUSE STEPS - DAY

Fletcher sits on the courthouse steps, miserable. PHONE RINGS.

FLETCHER
Hello.

INTERCUT WITH MAX AT HOME. AUDREY IS THERE.

MAX
Dad...

FLETCHER
(summoning up
enthusiasm)
Maxi-pad. How's it going?

MAX
Great. You know Paul and
Emanuel from across the
street?

FLETCHER
The twins.

MAX .
(excitedly)
Well, they never want to play
baseball with me, but I told
them I was gonna play tonight
with my Dad, so now they want
to play with us. Is it okay?

FLETCHER
Sure.
 
MAX
Oh boy.	We're setting up a
whole field in the yard.
Where we buried Petey the
hamster is second base.
(Fletcher sighs)
You're still coming right?'

FLETCHER
(sees Virginia
approaching)
I'11 be there.	I gotta go
now, Max.	I'll see you in two
hours.

Max hangs up.

MAX
(to Audrey)
He's really coming.

She smiles, but she's worried. .

COURTHOUSE STEPS
•

Virginia approaches with her handsome lover, LAURENCE FALK.

VIRGINIA
Mr. Reid, you remember
Laurence Falk, the man from
the tape.

FALK
How are you?

FLETCHER
I've slipped into the seventh
circle of Hell, thank you, and
you?

Virginia exchanges an anxious look with Falk.

VIRGINIA
Shouldn't we go over our
testimony?

FLETCHER
Well, basically the plan is I
walk you through the tape step
by step, I ask you questions--

VIRGINIA
 
And we give the explanation
you came up with.
 
FLETCHER
Exactly.

FALK
So all we have to do is lie.
Sounds simple enough.

FLETCHER
Doesn't it? And I'll finish
up with a dramatic series of
questions, something like...
"Mr. Falk, isn't it true that
you and Mrs. Cole have never
made lo--"

But Fletcher GAGS. He CAN'T GET THE QUESTION OUT. The others look concerned, but he waves them off.

FLETHCER (CONT'D)
Sorry.	I'm fine.	"Mr. Falk,
isn't it true that you and
Mrs. Cole have never made lo--
IO-.H

To his horror, he GAGS AGAIN, .unable to form the word.

FLETCHER
(to himself)
Oh my God!	I can't do it!	I
can't finish the question if I
know the answer is a lie!

At this moment Miranda and Mr. Allan come up the steps.

MR. ALLAN
Don't let me interrupt,
Fletcher. I just want you to
know I'll be observing this
afternoon. Miranda insisted I
see you in action.

Fletcher shoots a hateful look at Miranda.	She smiles.

MR. ALLAN (CONT'D)
I'm  looking  forward to it. Go
get 'em!

Mr. Allan and Miranda head into the building, leaving Fletcher more desperate than before.

FLETCHER
 
C'mon! Gotta rephrase the
question!
 
FLETCHER
Respondent calls... Lawrence
Falk.

Fletcher's clears his throat.	Here goes...

FLETCHER
Mr. Falk, do you know my
client, Virginia Cole?

FALK
Yes.

FLETCHER
Isn't it true that your
relationship with my client is
entirely platonic, not?

The "not" was INVOLUNTARY.	It takes everyone by surprise.

														FALK	
	Excuse me?	
														FLETCHER	
	If I might rephrase your	
	Honor.	
						(trying again)	
	Is your relationship with my	
x\	client entirely patonic, not?	
	Is your relationship with my	
		
	client not entirely platonic?	
	Is not															
				your relationship with	
																
	my client entirely platonic?	
						(thinks he's got	
						it, beams with	
						confidence)	
	Mr. Falk, is not your	
										
	relationship with my client	
	entirely platonic?	
												FALK	
						(confused)	
	No.  I mean, yes.  I think.	
												FLETCHER	
	Yes, is your relationship with	
	my client not entirely	
	platonic,					
		or yes, is not your	
	relationship with my client	
	entirely platonic?	
												FALK	
	What?	
 
FLETCHER
 
How 'bout just answering the

question you think I'm asking?
 


'

 
DANA
Your Honor, he's badgering the
wintness!
 

JUDGE STEVENS
It's hig witness!

FLETCHER
Did you ever not make lo--
Did you not ever make lo--
(losing it)
YOU HAD SEX WITH HER EVERYTIME
YOU MET, DIDN'T YOU?	DIDN'T
YOU?!!

Falk looks shaken as Fletcher barrels on, unable to stop

FLETCHER
(screaming at
him)
ADMIT IT!	YOU .SLAMMED HER!!
YOU STOKED THE FUR FIRE!	YOU
-DID THE YAM DANCE! !

FALK
(breaking down)
YES, YES,-- IT'S TRUE!	I
HUMPED HER. BRAINS OUT! !

A GASP from the audience. All eyes are on Fletcher.

FLETCHER
(weakly)
No further questions.

DANA
Uh...no questions.

JUDGE STEVENS
(to Fletcher)
Call your next witness.

FLETCHER
I have no further witnesses,
your Honor.

A MURMUR erupts from the crowd.

JUDGE STEVENS
You have no further
witnesses?!
 
Fletcher meekly shakes his head, no.

VIRGINIA
(whispers, to
Fletcher)
What are you doing? Call me.

FLETCHER
(to Virginia)
I	can't.

JUDGE STEVENS
Mr. Reid?

VIRGINIA
Call me, damn it!

FLETCHER
You don't understand. I can't
lie. Until nine-sixteen
tonight, I can't even.ask a
question that calls for a lie!

Virginia GRABS HIM BY THE TIE, pulls him CLOSE to her face.

VIRGINIA
Listen, you bastard. I want
my money. I am not gonna wind
up a 31 year old divorce on
welfare because my scum bag
attorney had a sudden attack
of conscience!

Fletcher suddenly stops -- focused on something Virginia said.

FLETCHER
(to himself)
Thirty-one?

JUDGE STEVENS
Mr. Reid, we're not getting
any younger...

Fletcher quickly looks at the blowup of Virginia's prenup and her passport.

JUDGE STEVENS
(he's had it)
Mr. Reid you have presented
virtually nothing in the way
of evidence and as such I have
no choice but to rule in favor
of --
 
FLETCHER
WAIT!

Silence.

FLETCHER	• .
(dramatically)
Your Honor, I call Virginia
Cole to the stand.

Stunned, Virginia nervously makes her way up,

MR. ALLAN
(in the gallery)
What the hell is he doing?

MIRANDA
Kissing his career goodbye.

The Baliff stands before the witness.

BALIFP
Do you swear to tell the
truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth, so help
-you God?

VIRGINIA
I do.

Fletcher approaches,. CONFIDENT NOW, COCKY.

FLETCHER
Mrs. Cole -- may I call you
Virginia?

VIRGINIA
Yes.

FLETCHER
But that would be a lie,
wouldn't it?

VIRGINIA
What do you mean?

FLETCHER
Isn't your true name...
(brandishing
passport)
Carlotta?!
 
VIRGINIA
Well, yes. But it wasn't me
so I started using Virginia.
Is there anything wrong with
that?

FLETCHER	• .
Not really.	It's just the
first and smallest in the
tissue of lies that is the
Kleenex of your life.	Let's
take one simple document as a
sample of your veracity, shall
we, Carlotta?

He grabs her purse from the desk, rifles through it,

FLETCHER
Your driver's license. What
color are your eyes?

VIRGINIA
Blue.

FLETCHER
True blue? What if I asked
you to remove your contact
lenses? What color would they
be then?

VIRGINIA
(reluctantly)
Brown.

FLETCHER
And here it says you're a
blonde. Are you?
(off her silence)
C'mon, Carlotta, there's a
very easy way for us to check.
If you don't remember, perhaps
Mr. Falk will.

VIRGINIA
Brunette.

FLETCHER
More like a dirty brown, isn't
it?
(she nods)
Let's see - . - " Weight: one-o-
five"? Please...

VIRGINIA .
One-eighteen.
 
(off his look)
One-twenty-six.	I swear!

FLETCHER
So on this single document,
you basically lied at every
opportunity.	I'm sure a woman
as vain as you would also lie
about her age.	It says you
were born in 1964.	What's the
truth?	1962? '60?	How young

did you try to make yourself?

VIRGINIA
(joyfully)
Wrong!	I didn't lie to make
myself younger.	I made myself
older.	I was born in 1965!"

FLETCHER
(feigning
surprise)
What?	You're trying to tell
us you lied to make yourself
older?

VIRGINIA
Yes!	"* lied so I could get
married! So .there Mister 'I
got-all-the-answers-because-I-
went-to-law-school'!

JUDGE STEVENS
Mr. Reid, does this have a
point?

FLETCHER
Oh, you bet it does, your
Honor!
(on a roll)
My client lied about her age
because she was only 17 when
she got married. Which makes
her a minor. And in the great
state of California, NO MINOR
CAN ENTER INTO A LEGAL
CONTRACT WITHOUT PARENTAL
CONSENT INCLUDING--

DANA
(defeated, to
herself)
Prenuptual agreements.
 
FLETCHER
(knows he has
them)
PRENUPTUAL AGREEMENTS!	THANK
YOU VERY LITTLE!	This
contract is void!!!	The fact
that my client gets nailed •
more often than a two-by-four
is irrelevant.	Standard
community property applies and
this woman is entitled to half
of the marital assets or
thirty-seven point three-nine-
five million dollars!!

(to Dana)
You. . . .  are . . . . TOASTTTTT! ! !
(dramatically)
Nothing further, your Honor!

A MURMUR OVERTAKES THE ROOM!
/
JUDGE STEVENS
(banging his
gavel)
Quiet! Let me see-the license
and birth certificate.

All is quiet while the Judge reviews the documents. Then:

JUDGE STEVENS
In light of this new evidence,
the court must rule in favor
of the defense. Mrs. Cole is
hereby awarded half of the
marital assets -or thirtyrseven
million three hundred and
ninety-five thousand dollars.

The courtroom ERUPTS.	FLETCHER'S WON!	Dana, Mr. Cole are
devastated.	'

MR. ALLAN
That son of bitch pulled it
off!

Mr. Allan gives Fletcher a thumbs-up; simultaneously, Miranda gives him the finger.

JUDGE STEVENS
Order! Order!! Now i
understand both parties have
agreed to joint custody.	Is
that correct?
 
FLETCHER AND DANA
Yes--

VIRGINIA
No!	I'm contesting custody.

Fletcher freezes.

FLETCHER
What?

VIRGINIA
(re: her husband)
Payback.	For him trying to
prevent me from collecting my
thirty-seven million.

FLETCHER
He was entitled to prevent
you. You committed adultery.'
You only won because you're a
liar, remember?	.

VIRGINIA
No. You pointed out that my
husband took advantage of a
poor underage girl.	I was the
victim here. And now I'm
going to hit him where it
hurts.

FLETCHER
But -- but -- you said he was
a good father.

JUDGE STEVENS
Mr. Reid? Do we have an
agreement on custody or not?

Fletcher takes a distressed look at the children.

FLETCHER
No.	.

JUDGE STEVENS
In that case, there will be a
custody hearing tomorrow
morning at nine. Court is
adj ourned!

He BANGS THE GAVEL. Everyone gets up, but Fletcher's attention is drawn to a commotion between Virginia and her kids.
 
VIRGINIA
Stop that!	We're leaving now!

CHILD
I want to go with Daddy.
V,.,-'

Fletcher watches, horrified, as she drags the kids away from their tearful father.

MR. COLE
Don't worry.	I'll see you no
matter what.	I promise.

Mr. Allan has made his way up to Fletcher.

MR. ALLAN
(re: the
commotion)
I love kids. They give you so
much leverage in a case like
this.
(pats Fletcher on
back)
Congratulations, partner. how
does it feel?

And with that question asked, as he watches poor Mr. Cole and his kids, the truth dawns on Fletcher like a sledgehammer!

FLETCHER '
Excuse me. Just a second.
(to the Judge)
Your Honor? Your Honor?
Wait!

JUDGE STEVENS
We',re adjourned, Mr. Reid.

FLETCHER
Screw that!! She lies and she
wins?! What are we, nuts?

Everyone stops, watches Fletcher.

FLETCHER (CONT'D)
This woman --my client --
goes down with the frequency
of a nuclear submarine and we
just gave her thirty seven
million dollars because she's
a liar! And now as an extra
added little bonus, we're
going to let her steal, the
kids, too?
 
JUDGE STEVENS
Mr. Reid, you are out of
order!

FLETCHER
(screaming)
•	SO'S THE HAND DRYER IN THE MEN'S ROOM!! Do you ever stop to ask yourself, why do people hate us? Could it be because what we did here today sucks?! We don't care about the truth! We don't want to find the truth! We want to win! We want to win at all costs...and you know what the worst thing about wanting to win so badly is? WINNING! Winning and finding out you're left with nothing!

JUDGE STEVENS
That's enough, Mr. Reid --

FLETCHER
-Let' s see what I' ve done
today.	I've helped a gold
digging slut get richer.	I'm
taking this guy's kids away.
(to Mr. Allan)
I don't like you in the least,
now I'm one of your partners!
YOU WANNA KNOW WHAT IT FEELS
LIKE MR. ALLAN?	IT FEELS LIKE
SHIT!	BUT TO TELL YOU IT
FEELS LIKE SHIT, FEELS FUCKING
GREAT 1 I

Fletcher does feel strangely fantastic. Free,

JUDGE STEVENS
That's it, Mr..Reid.	I find
you in contempt!

FLETCHER
GOOD! I'M CONTEMPTIBLE!	MY
WHOLE GODDAMN LIFE IS JUST ONE
BIG FAT FIB!	YOU LIKE MY
HAIR? --
(mussing hair)
MOUSSED!	SHOULDERS --
(ripping out
pads)
PADDED!	SHOES --
 
(kicking them
off)
LIFTED!	TEETH --
(pulling out
caps)
CAPPED!	FIVE-NINETY A
CHICKLET!!

COMMOTION in the court.	The judge BANGS HIS GAVEL!!!

JUDGE STEVENS
Bailiff!	Remove Mr. Reid from
the courtroom!

FLETCHER
You wanna know the truth? Oh
yeah, let's let it rain... The
truth is is that I've traded
my life...a beautiful wife, an
incredible son for THIS PISS
POT OF BIG DOUBLE O'S!

The bailiff grabs Fletcher, forces him out...

FLETCHER
GO AHEAD, YOUR HONOR, BANG
YOUR GAVEL .-- KEEP TELLING
YOURSELF YOU'RE A BIG SHOT! DO
I SENSE A CASE OF GAVEL ENVY!!
WHAT'S THAT UNDER YOUR ROBE --
INSUFFICIENT EVIDENCE?!!
(the judge is
turning beet
red)
. I TOUCHED A NERVE DIDN'T I?
WE'RE ALL A BUNCH OF BULLSHIT
ARTISTS!!	IS THAT THE TRUTH
IN YOUR PANTS OR ARE YOU JUST
HAPPY TO SEE ME??

Fletcher is pushed passed Mr. Allan.

MR. ALLAN
You just killed your career.
I hope you're happy.

FLETCHER
I'M BEYOND HAPPY MY BUTT FACED
FRIEND---	I'M EUPHORIC!

EXT. AUDREY'S PORCH -'DAY

A sad Max is seated on the steps. TWO other BOYS are there with baseball equipment.
 
PAUL
We're going home.

EMMANUEL
Yeah, thanks for the great
game, Max.

Emanuel knocks Max's hat off. Audrey's been watching from the door. She goes and sits by her son.

AUDREY
Max, honey.	Your dad had a
very big case today. It
probably just--

MAX
I don't want to talk about it.

AUDREY
Okay.

MAX
(suddenly)
I hate dad!	I hate him!

AUDREY
Honey, don^t say that.

Max is really upset. It's "that look" and then some. The look Audrey never wanted to see again. She makes a decision.

AUDREY
Max, there's something I-want
to talk to you about. . .

INT. JAIL AREA

Fletcher's handcuffed and is led to jail by TWO OFFICERS-. There's a happy/crazedness to him now. The truth is pouring forth, but he looks way, way off the deep end.
 
(desperately,
passing a phone)
Phone call!!	Phone call!!	I
get to make a phone call!!

INT. AUDREY'S KITCHEN -- DAY

Max and Audrey at the table. The airline tickets Jerry gave her are in front of them.

MAX
When would we move?

AUDREY
Soon. My semester's almost
over. You only have a week
left of school... You like
Jerry don't you?
(he nods)
So what do you say, should we
check it out? Jerry wants us
to come with him tonight. He
has to pick out a place to
live and he really wants our
help?

MAX
Could I get a sled for when it
snows?

AUDREY
Of course you can.

Max thinks, then:

MAX
Okay.

INT. JAIL

Fletcher's holding a phone. He's frantic, now.

FLETCHER
(re: ringing
phone)
Answer! Answer!! Answer!! !

%

The phone RINGS, Audrey answers it.

AUDREY
Hello.	.
 

INTERCUT FLETCHER/AUDREY
 
FLETCHER
Audrey!	It's Fletcher--

AUDREY
(pissed)
I can't talk now, Fletcher.
We have to pack.

FLETCHER
Wait, the most amazing thing's
happened to me!	I am feeling
so good...
(realizing)
Pack?! Did you say pack?!

AUDREY
Max was sitting on the porch
again, waiting for his dad.	I
won't let you do this to him
anymore.	I won't let you do
this to me.

FLETCHER
Audrey, wait. Please, I need
to talk to you.	I .swear, I'm
a changed man. Just come to
the courthouse with a thousand
dollars and bail me out...
Hello?
(to a cop)
One more call!! I need
another call!!

INT. JAIL CELL - DAY

Fletcher is pacing back and forth. A GROUP OF TOUGH PRISONERS are on the far side of the cell, trying to stay as far away from Fletcher as they can.

FLETCHER
And what about our water
supply? You don't think "the
man's" dumped enough toxins to
render every dick in this cell
as lifeless as a beached
minnow? You're damn rightJ
"The man" does anything he
wants. We're nothing but
puppets... Little game pieces
they move back and forth.

A DEPUTY appears.	'

DEPUTY
Mr. Reid.	^
 
FLETCHER
That's me.	Fletcher T. Reid.
Pawn no. 332-154-9867.

DEPUTY
You made bail.	Some woman.

INT. OUTER AREA

Fletcher rushes in.

FLETCHER
Audrey?
(he spots)
Greta?!

GRETA
Am I too late? Have you been
sexually molested yet? I
could circle the block.

FLETCHER
Greta! Greta!! . . . .	Look at
you, you well preserved,
underpaid, overworked,
underappreciated thing you.
Give me a hug! You came and
got me out!! Hug me!!

GRETA
(totally wierded
out)
Yes, well, I heard you went
all noble in front of Mr.
Allan so--

FLETCHER
You know what?! I love you.
I  loveyouloveyouloveyou.  I

want to hug you. Come here..,

GRETA
Mr. Reid, what has gotten intc
to you?!

FLETCHER
Just the truth, Greta.
Fifteen years of being stuck
in a lie is nowhere near as
powerful as one day of being
stuck in the truth.
 
(checks his
watch)
Oh, my God!!	I have to go!
Thanks again, Greta!
(as he runs off
he calls back to
her)
By the way, the truth is that
I need you and I couldn't file
a paperclip without you!

Greta smiles, then catches herself, and quickly regains her "composure".

CUT TO:

EXT.STREETS/INT. BMW

Fletcher's driving like a madman...

FLETCHER
(on his phone)
Answeransweransweranswer...

We HEAR a RECORDED VOICE:
•

VOICE
The subscriber you called is
either unavailable or outside
the calling area.

FLETCHER
Shit!!

INT. LAX UNITED TERMINAL - DAY

Audrey and Max meet Jerry by the ticket counter. Max is wearing the Dodger cap his dad gave him. Jerry surprises him with a Boston Red Sox hat.

JERRY
A little going away present.
I was gonna get you a bowl of
clam chowder but they only had
Manhattan.

AUDREY
Say thank you, Max.

MAX
Thanks.	•.
 

Max takes off the hat his dad gave him and replaces it with the Boston hat.
 
INT. BMW - DAY

Fletcher's on the phone. He sails passed a parked POLICE CAR.

FLETCHER
(into phone)
Shelton, Jerry Shelton.
What time's that flight leave?
7:50.	Thank you.
(checks his
watch)
Oh, shit! Shit!! Shit!

Fletcher spots the FLASHING LIGHTS.

FLETCHER
Shiiiiit!!!

He pulls over -- so quick he jumps the curb.

POLICE OFFICER
Would you step out of the car,
please?

Fletcher obeys.

FLETCHER
Listen; I know I'm driving a
little crazy but i have an
emergency to attend to...

The cop's just getting off his walkie talkie.

POLICE OFFICER
I'm impounding this vehicle.

FLETCHER
Why? What for? For changing
lanes?

POLICE OFFICER
I just ran your tags through
the computer. You've got.
seventeen unpaid parking
tickets.

FLETCHER
No!	I paid them! This
morning!	That's the truth!	I
swear!!

POLICE OFFICER
Not according to the computer.
 
FLETCHER
The computer is wrong!	It
'	hasn't been updated. The computer's a liar!

POLICE OFFICER
You can straighten it out at
the impound yard.

FLETCHER
(checks his
watch, firmly)
NO!

POLICE OFFICER
No?

FLETCHER
That's right, no!	I'm not
gonna lose my son because some
stupid clerk was too lazy to
update the computer.
(getting cockier.
as he goes)
Now if you want to follow me,
. you can follow me and take the car after I get where I'm going. I'm a lawyer and I know my rights! Understand?!

CUT TO:

A TOW TRUCK drives away with Fletcher's car, leaving Fletcher stranded.

EXT. STREETS - DAY	'

Fletcher frantically tries to hail a...

FLETCHER
Taxi!	Taxi!!

No luck. He spots

A PAYPHONE

digs through the Yellow Pages. Finds "Ten Minute Taxi". Yes! He fishes for change. Shit! He doesn't have any!!

FLETCHER
(looking	.
heavenward)
Noooo!!!

He spots a man walking by.
 
FLETCHER
'Scuse me, sir. Do you have
any - -

The man turns. It's the same BEGGAR Fletcher was rude to outside the courthouse.

BEGGAR
Change? Absolutely.

He continues walking.

FLETCHER
Could you spare some?

BEGGAR
Unquestionably.

The beggar continues on.

'	FLETCHER
Alright, I get your point.
But this is a crisis! Look,
I'll give you ten bucks.

The beggar pulls out a quarter and holds it up.

BEGGAR
(admiring
quarter)
It's so shiny and new.

FLETCHER
Twenty.	.

BEGGAR
Minted in Denver.	Imagine
that.

FLETCHER
Thirty-four. That's all I
have.

A moment as the beggar thinks, then:

BEGGAR
It's worth twice that to screw
you.

He walks off, grinning.

FLETCHER
JERKOFF!
 
BEGGAR
LAWYER!

Fletcher turns, spots a familiar building in the distance.

FLETCHER
My office!!

INT. LOBBY FLETCHER'S OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

He starts in the front door, when a SECURITY GUARD stops him.

SECURITY GUARD
Whoa, where do you think
you're going?

FLETCHER
I just need to use the phone
to call a cab.	I work here.

MR. ALLAN (O.S.)
Used to work here.

Mr. Allan has just exited the elevator.
...	•
MR. ALLAN
(to security
guard)
Son, that man is tresspassing.

The guard starts toward Fletcher threateningly.

FLETCHER
Hold it!
(to Mr. Allan)
I've got ten years worth of
dirt on you and this firm, and
I'm in the kind of mood today
to get a lot off my chest.
You let me use the phone or I
start talking!!

CUT TO:

Fletcher's is THROWN ON HIS ASS in the street. Mr. Allan has watched from atop the stairs of the building.

MR. ALLAN
Still euphoric, Reid?
 

He goes back inside.• Fletcher starts to get up when a CAR SCREECHES to a HALT, inches away.
 
MAN'S VOICE ( O . S . )
Fletcher! •

It's PHILIP.

PHILIP
Seven-thirty... It's Karaoke
time!

Fletcher runs up and HUGS the astonished man,

FLETCHER
PHILIP!!	LOOK AT YOU!!! MY
PHILIP!!

Fletcher KISSES HIM ON THE LIPS.

INT. PHILIP'S CAR - DAY

Philip's driving Fletcher.

FLETCHER
You're saving my life, Philip.

PHILIP
You know, it's funny, but for
some reason I was beginning to
think you didn't like me.
Isn't that silly?

FLETCHER .
No.	It's not silly.	I don't
like you.

PHILIP
What?

FLETCHER
I don't like you.	I'm sorry.
I find you boring.	I hate
charades. And you wouldn't
know a good time if it sat on
your face.
(feels bad)
I'm sorry. It was easier than
telling you how I really felt.
Are you upset?

A moment, then:

PHILIP
No. To be honest, I don't
like you either. You treat
people like obstacles and you
cheat at charades. .
 
FLETCHER
Then why are you always trying
to socialize with me?

PHILIP
You're a client.	I figured if
I didn't try to be your
friend, you'd get a new
accountant.

FLETCHER
Philip, I don't like you as a
person, but I'm crazy about
you as my accountant.	I'd
never hire a new accountant.
Never!

PHILIP
So we don't have to like each
other anymore?

FLETCHER	-
Not at all.

.	PHILIP
All right. Sooner I get you
•to the airport, sooner I can
dump your sorry ass off.

EXT. AIRPORT -- DAY

Philip's car skids to a stop.	Fletcher jumps out.

INT. LAX TERMINAL - DAY .

Fletcher races in.

FLETCHER
Bedelayed.  Bedelayed.  Fog,
rain, something, anything...

He sees the DEPARTURE BOARD

"Flight 69. Departs 7:50. On Time. Gate 17." Fletcher looks at the clock -- It's 7:46!! Holy Shit!! INT. LAX ESCALATOR

Fletcher pushes his way HE a crowded escalator. Past people standing on the left despite the SIGN that says
STAND ON RIGHT.
 
FLETCHER
Excuse me. . .  excuse me. . .  Come
on folks, let's let the
frantic man pass... Sorry...
Thank... you... Standing on
the right, passing on the
left. They can't make this-
deal any easier than it is...
Come on... coming through...

At the top,- a WOMAN in a NURSES UNIFORM asks for money...

WOMAN
Help the poor?...

FLETCHER
(speeding past)
I don't trust you.	I don't
know what the hell that
uniform is.	Sorry.
(a Hare Krishna
tries to stop
him)
NOT NOW, TOGA BOY!

INT. LAX - SECURITY AREA

Fortunately, there's no line at the metal detector.
Fletcher races right by but SETS OFF THE ALARM.

INSPECTOR
Please step through again.

FLETCHER
Ahhh!!!	Damn..;

Fletcher frantically tosses his keys, cufflinks, his Rolex into a tray.

He tries again.	It BUZZES again!

FLETCHER
What? I'tii practically naked!

A guy in a TURBAN passes over him with a DETECTOR WAND.

FLETCHER
It's called a ZIPPER, Hodgy...
 

The wand BEEPS over Fletchers front pocket. He reaches in and pulls out the now familiar BLUE PEN...
 
INT. LAX - DEPARTURE CONCOURSE

Fletcher races by Gate 15, 16, gets to 1 7 . . . but sees the PLANE Slowly TAXIING AWAY.

FLETCHER
Nooo!!!

Fletcher spots a door marked "NOT AN EXIT". Goes for it when a FLIGHT ATTENDANT interrupts.

FLIGHT ATTENDANT
Can I help you?

FLETCHER
Look out!! ! --
(truthful)
-NOTHING'S COMING!!

The woman raises her eyebrows and looks anyway. And Fletcher BOLTS THROUGH THE EXIT!

EXT. TARMAC - DAY

He scurries down a flight of stairs calling after the plane which is moving away.

No way he'll catch it.

Then, he sees a MECHANIC working on a MOBILE STAIRS UNIT (These are the steps they pull up to planes) Fletcher gets an insane idea. . .

The worker hears an ENGINE START, looks up to SEE FLETCHER in the truck, driving off, TOWING THE STAIRS.

WORKER
Hey!!	Hey!!!!

But Fletcher's gone.

EXT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Fletcher's DRIVING THE STAIRS trying to catch up with the plane. GROUND WORKERS react.

Soon, the "stairs" are racing alongside the plane.

Fletcher looks for signs of Audrey and Max but he's too low to see in the plane.

He grabs the TOOL BOX'on the passenger's seat,-puts it on the accelerator, pinning it to the floor. Then, he CLIMBS THE STEPS!
 
The "stairs" sway back and forth as he reaches the top.

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY - MOVING

PASSENGERS calmly read while outside FLETCHER speeds along, WAVING HIS ARMS like a maniac. The ENGINE NOISE drowns out his call for...


FLETCHER
MAX?!!	AUDREYY?!!

A STEWARDESS stands in the aisle, giving the safety lecture.

STEWARDESS
In case of a water landing,
please use your seat cushion
as--

•Her MOUTH DROPS as she notices Fletcher.

EXT. TARMAC - DAY

Fletcher is BANGING on the windows. People on the plane POINT, STARE in amazement.

Fletcher looks ahead, SEES the stairs about to CRASH INTO THE WING! Fletcher desperately fiddles with some controls. At the last second, finds the one that LOWERS THE STAIRS.

He surfs under the wing...

. . .	and RAISES UP THE STAIRS at the other side.

Fletcher's at the front of the plane, where he finally spots. . .

MAX, AUDREY AND JERRY SEATED IN THE BULKHEAD

Max has the window seat, Audrey arid Jerry are next to him. Audrey has on her headset and Jerry is looking for his seatbelt. NEITHER SEES FLETCHER.

Fletcher SCREAMS to get their attention. But it's TOO NOISY.

Then, Fletcher looks ahead and his EYES GO WIDE!

FLETCHER'S POV

The RUNWAY is ENDING!.

Just then, Max looks up...SEES HIS DAD. Audrey is now trying to help Jerry find his seat belt.
 
AUDREY
(checks under his
seat)
It's right here, honey.

MAX
Mom!	Mom!!	'

AUDREY
Just a second, Max.

MAX
Mom, it's dad!

AUDREY
What? What about dad?

Audrey turns. Then she sees Fletcher WAVING weakly...

AUDREY
Fletcher?!

AT THAT INSTANT -- THE PLANE MAKES A SHARP TURN!

BUT THE STAIRS DON'T! They keeps going straight, heading • right for the END OF THE RUNWAY and a parked LOADED LUGGAGE CART. . -

And BAM!	FLETCHER, THE STAIRS, THE LUGGAGE ALL GO FLYING!

Audrey strains to watch as FLETCHER lands hard ONTO A MOUNTAIN OF BAGGAGE!

CLOSE ON FLETCHER

With all the strength he has he lifts his head, sees he's in one piece, and then COLLAPSES IN DEFEAT.

CUT TO:

INT. JAIL CELL - NIGHT

Fletcher's BANGED UP pretty good.	His head is BANDAGED.
He.puts a COLD COMPRESS to his BRUISED FOREHEAD and WINCES.

FLETCHER
(mumbles to
himself)
Oh boy, the truth hurts.	Yes
indeed.

DEPUTY
 
Mr. Reid. Someone made bail
for you.
 
EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Fletcher comes out LIMPING, totally dishevelled, missing a shoe, and still holding the compress.

FLETCHER
(weakly)
Greta?	Is that you?

He looks up and is surprised to see AUDREY and JERRY waiting for him just outside the door.

Max is sitting at the bottom of the stairs, still ANGRY.
He sees his dad, then quickly turns away.

FLETCHER
(to Audrey and
Jerry, trying to
seem chipper)
Sorry I made you miss your
flight, not really.
(no response)
You're obviously a little
. upset, not that I blame you...
although I'll bet you'll still
get the bonus miles. . .

AUDREY
Fletcher, are you crazy?
What were you doing?

FLETCHER
That's two questions. A; Yes,
but I think the legal term is
temporarily insane. And B; I
was trying to finally have
that talk with you about
Boston.

Audrey's patience are growing thin...

FLETCHER
Okay, okay... The whole truth
and nothing but the truth,
(with difficulty,
sincerely)
I tried to stop the plane
because it was taking off with
my life... you and Max.

This comes as a surprise to Audrey. Not just what Fletcher said, but the way he said it.
 
FLETCHER
I know you've met somebody...
somebody pretty great... and
the truth is I wish you didn't
but you did and...	All I' m
asking i s . . . Please don't move
to Boston.	Please don't take
Max away.

She's definitely moved by Fletcher, but not convinced.

AUDREY
You can come visit anytime.
It's only a four hour flight.

FLETCHER
I don't want to visit him.
That's what I've been doing--
visiting him, dropping by,
stopping in.	I want to be in
his life.	I don't want to be
some jerk that sees him at
Easter.	I want to be his
father.

Fletcher turns to Jerry.

FLETCHER
I know I have no right to ask,
but can I talk you out of
taking that job? I can get
you a better job here in L.A.
I've got all kinds of
connections...what do you do
again?

JERRY
I design security systems.

FLETCHER
How symbolic. Okay great.
You know Pac-Tec?

JERRY
The biggest.

FLETCHER
One of their systems shorted
out and burned down a
supermarket.	I got them off.
Another proud day for justice.
If I ask them they'll beat
your Boston offer in two
seconds.	. .
 
AUDREY
Don't put Jerry in the middle.

JERRY
It's okay.
(to Fletcher)
Boston means this
(snaps his
fingers)
to me.	All I want is for this
lady and Max to be happy.
Preferably, with me.	Whatever
they want, I'll go along with.

They both look to Audrey.

AUDREY
All I want is for Max to be
happy.

Audrey looks over to Max seated at the bottom of the stairs. He's still upset.

AUDREY
You better know your jury.
You're hot exactly Max's hero
today.

FLETCHER
Just let me present my case.

Fletcher walks over,, tries to be playful, starts WALKING, TALKING LIKE THE TERMINATOR.

FLETCHER/TERMINATOR
I have been sent from the
future to destroy you. . .
Argghhh!
(no response, a
beat)
You mad at me?

Max nods.	Fletcher's at a loss for how to begin. Then:

FLETCHER
You wanted me to stop lying.
But lying isn't the problem. ..
Why we lie ~ that's the
problem. Sometimes we lie to
make someone else feel better.
But sometimes we lie because
the truth gets in our way...
(touches him)
But being an adult means you
sacrifice some things for more
 
important things.	Much more
important things.	I was so
stupid, Max.
(pointing to his
own head)
Malfunction in vector one.
All this time you've been here
and I could see you anytime I
felt like it.	And I...
didn't.	Please don't go to
Boston.	Max, I love you more
than anything else in the
world and you know it's true.
I couldn't say it if it
weren't true. Not today.

A moment as Max studies his father, then:

MAX
(to Audrey)
He's telling the truth, Mom.
He's not allowed to lie.	I
made a wish and anything Dad
says has to be the truth.
(to Fletcher) ..
Right?

But Fletcher's looking at his watch...

FLETCHER
Max. .. it's 9:22.

AUDREY
What?

FLETCHER
Max, you made the wish at
9:15.	I've been able to lie
for the last seven minutes.

Max steps away from Fletcher.

MAX
So then, you were...

FLETCHER
No!	It wasn't a lie.	I just
wanted to be honest with you
and tell you -- there was no
wish to guarantee it anymore.
You just have to believe me.

Max looks at Audrey, who is letting Max decide for himself Max looks at Fletcher and tries to decide.
 
MAX
(to Audrey)
Mommy... do we have to go to
Boston?

Audrey looks at Jerry, then back at Max.

AUDREY
No.	We don't have to.

Fletcher hugs his son -- the kind of hug that says "I'll never let you go."

MAX
(to Fletcher)
Can we play catch tomorrow?

Fletcher smiles. . .

EXT. PARK - DAY

A beautiful park with a basball diamond. Fletcher is seated on a bench, waiting. He's dressed in sweats, with a baseball glove. Soon, Jerry, Audrey, and Max pull up...

MAX
Dad! !

FLETCHER
Maximum!!

Fletcher picks Max up.

MAX
Transformer!!! .

Fletcher and Max do the TRANSFORMER ROUTINE again...

FLETCHER
Malfunction in vector seven.
I have lost control of my
affection reflex...

Fletcher starts KISSING MAX on the head over and over. He sees Audrey.

FLETCHER
Procreate!	Procreate!

AUDREY
(playfully)
 
Fletcher... You're gonna lose
a limb--
 
MAX
Come on, dad, let's play
catch!!

FLETCHER
Sure. . .
(starts to toss
Max)
Here you go, mom.
(Max screams)
Oh, you mean with a ball...

He puts Max down. Max runs into position. Fletcher stops for a second and turns to Jerry, man to man.

FLETCHER
I take back every dirty,
dishonest thing I ever said
about you, wrote about you,
faxed about you, E-mailed
about you.

JERRY
Appreciated.

Fletcher tosses the baseball up and down.

FLETCHER
So, you up for a little
friendly competition?

JERRY
No, you go play with your son.

FLETCHER
I wasn't talking about
basesball.

A slow smile from Jerry. Fletcher winks and tosses the ball to Max.

FLETCHER
(to Max)
Alright, it's time to show you
the old Fletcher Reid change
up...

Fletcher winds up in an EXAGERATED SUPER FAST MOTION, then instantly shifts to SUPER SLOW MOTION. Max CRACKS UP. Audrey LAUGHS. Jerry can't help but smile, too.

There may be better things in life... but at this moment, it's hard to think of a single one. Honestly.
 

THE END
