FRANK (O.S.)

That's an excellent question, Olive.
Actually, the Hindus believe that
you get as many lives as you want.
Buddhists believe that you live many
lives but at a certain point you

reach Nirvana and cross the finish
line. Christians believe you only
get one life -- they don't believe
in do-overs.

OLIVE (O.S.)
What do you believe?

FRANK (O.S.)
I dunno. I haven't made my mind up.
What about you?

OLIVE
I think everyone goes to Heaven.

FRANK
Even me?

OLIVE
Yes!

FRANK

You promise?

OLIVE

Yes!!!

FADE TO BLACK

INT. VW BUS - ON THE ROAD - DAY

They are cruising. Olive has her headphones back on, though she's not bouncing anymore -- just nodding her head. Sheryl points to a passing sign, "Boca Raton -- 61 Miles."

SHERYL
Sixty one miles. What time is it?

Frank checks his watch.

FRANK
Five of two...!

Sheryl looks worriedly at Richard. Richard steps on the gas.

RICHARD
We'll make it! Don't worry!

SHERYL
We're cutting it close...

RICHARD
 
It's not even close! We'll be...

A car cuts in front of him. He brakes.

RICHARD
Look out! Asshole!

He HONKS the horn loudly at the guy.

FRANK
What happened?

RICHARD
He cut me off!

The horn keeps HONKING intermittently.

SHERYL
Okay. You can stop now.

RICHARD
It's not me! This thing is stuck.

He tries to pull the horn button up. Instead, he gets a long continuous HOOOONK. He lets go. It stops.

SHERYL

Okay, just leave it...!

Silence. Then a HONK. Another silence. HONK, HONK.

SHERYL

Maybe if you pull it from...

She tries to lift up another part. HOOOOONK. She stops.

RICHARD

Just leave it, okay? We'll fix it
when we get to Boca!

SHERYL
Okay, fine!

Silence. HONK! Silence. HONK! HONK! Silence. Dwayne puts his head in his hands. He can't stand it.

FRANK

How many days 'til you enlist?

Dwayne pulls out his pad and writes. He shows it:

"623"

Frank contemplates this.

FRANK
Maybe I can adopt you.

Dwayne stares out the window. HONK! Silence. HOOONK!
 
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The van, its horn BLARING, cruises past a State Trooper hiding behind an evergreen. The TROOPER hits the lights.

INT. VW BUS - ON THE ROAD - DAY

Richard sees the lights in the rear-view mirror.

RICHARD
Oh, Jesus! I'm being pulled over!
Everybody: act normal, okay?. Like
everything is normal. Here we go...

He pulls onto the breakdown lane and stops. The HORN continues HONKING intermittently. The Trooper, a 50-ish good ol' boy, gets out and approaches.

TROOPER
How're you folks doin' today?

RICHARD
Fine! Doin' fine!
(HONK)
Sorry!

TROOPER
Having trouble with your horn?

RICHARD
Yeah, a little trouble.
(HONK)
Sorry!

(HONK)
Sorry!!!

Frank leans forward gleefully:

FRANK
Don't apologize, Rich! It's a sign
of weakness!

Richard ignores him.

TROOPER
Would you step out of your vehicle?

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Reluctantly, Richard gets out. The Trooper gestures towards the back of the van.

TROOPER

Would you step this way?

RICHARD

No...!
 
TROOPER
What?

RICHARD

Don't...!

TROOPER

Don't what?

Richard shuts up. The Trooper sees him glance at the trunk.

TROOPER

You have something in your trunk?

RICHARD
No! Nothing! There's nothing. It's
just... Don't open it.

The Trooper is incredulous.

TROOPER
Sir, you realize you've just given
me probable cause to search your
trunk? Put your hands on top of your
vehicle. Now don't move.

He shakes his head and walks back towards the trunk,

RICHARD

Please! It's not illegal, it's...

TROOPER

Sir, I'd advise you to keep your
mouth shut.

Richard shuts up. The Trooper pulls his gun and hesitantly approaches the trunk.

INT. VW BUS - DAY

Everyone surreptitiously watches the Trooper.

SHERYL
(sotto)
Oh no, what's he doing?!

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Richard watches the Trooper walk around the back of the bus and reach for the trunk. He closes his eyes.

The Trooper opens the trunk.

TROOPER

Whoa! Goddamn!!!

Richard opens his eyes, shakes his head -- this is the end.

TROOPER
 
Sir, would you come here?

Richard walks back. The Trooper bends down behind the bus.

Rounding the corner, Richard sees the Trooper picking up Grandpa's porn magazines, which have spilled onto the road.

The bundled sheet sits in plain sight. The Trooper, distracted, gathers the magazines and stands. He grins.

TROOPER
Don't worry, I ain't gonna bust you.

He looks in the bus, smiles and waves at Sheryl and Olive.

INT. VW BUS - DAY

Everyone in the bus -- minds blown -- waves back.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The Trooper tidies the magazines and, grinning, shuffles through them with a connoisseur's eye -- Swank, High Society, Black Tail. The next magazine: Honcho.

A beefy, moustached stud gazes smolderingly from the cover.

The Trooper stops grinning. He looks at Richard. Richard shrugs and laughs nervously.

INT. VW BUS - DAY

As the Trooper's cruiser pulls back onto the highway, Richard walks to the front, climbs in, slams the door.

SHERYL
What happened?!

RICHARD

(steely)
I'll tell you when I regain
consciousness.

(starts the car)
Frank. Dwayne. Get out and push.

INT. VW BUS - ON THE ROAD - DAY

They are cruising. The horn HONKS in occasional spurts. Everyone ignores it. Olive plays with an eye chart she got at the hospital. She points at a diminishing set of "E"s.

Dwayne is in the back seat, holding a hand over one eye and pointing his finger up, down, or sideways to correspond to the rotation of the "E". Dwayne makes it through the chart.

OLIVE
20/20 vision! Mom, Dwayne has 20/20

vision!
 
SHERYL
I bet he does.

OLIVE

Okay, further back!

Dwayne and Olive continue with the charts, with Dwayne sitting further back. Sheryl points to a passing sign.

SHERYL
Boca Raton! Forty six!

Frank checks his watch.

FRANK
It's 2:15PM...!

Sheryl looks at Richard, who steps on the gas.

RICHARD
We'll make it, okay?! Maybe a few
minutes late.

SHERYL

No, Richard...! They said three
o'clock sharp! They were very
explicit. You don't want to fuck

with these people. Trust me.

FRANK
You know where it is?

SHERYL
The Holiday Inn. She said it's just

off the highway. You can't miss it.

RICHARD

She better be right.

In the back, Olive pulls out a new flyer.

OLIVE

Okay, now I'm gonna test if you're
colorblind. What letter is in the
circle?

She holds up a chart with a green circle. Inside the circle, in a mosaic pattern, is a bright red letter "A". Dwayne makes a gesture, "There's nothing there."

OLIVE
No, inside the circle! Right there!

Dwayne shakes his head again. Olive glances at Frank.

OLIVE
It's an "A"! Can't you see it?! It's

red! See? Right there!
 
Dwayne takes the chart and stares at it.

FRANK
You can't see the "A"? It's bright
red. Can you see the difference
between the green and the red?

Dwayne shakes his head helplessly. Frank turns away.

FRANK
Oh, man.

Dwayne looks at him. He pulls out his pad and writes:

"What?"

Frank doesn't say anything. Dwayne points violently at the pad. Frank looks at him. Quietly:

FRANK
Dwayne. I think you're colorblind.

Dwayne doesn't understand. He points at the pad again.

FRANK
You can't fly jets in the Navy if
you're colorblind.

Dwayne does nothing. Then he seems to implode in on himself, curling up in a ball. Frank shouts towards the front.

FRANK

Rich, pull over!

RICHARD
What?!

FRANK
We have an emergency back here!

RICHARD
What is it?

FRANK

Just pull over!

RICHARD

What's the emergency?

FRANK
Sheryl, will you make him pull over?!

SHERYL
Richard...!

RICHARD
We're gonna be late if...

SHERYL
 
Richard!!!

RICHARD
I'm pulling over, okay?! I'm pulling
over!

He puts on the clicker.

EXT. SIDE OF THE INTERSTATE - DAY

The bus pulls into the break-down lane beside the highway.

The door slides open and Dwayne gets out onto the grassy slope by the side of the road. He walks off with his head in his hands. This is the first time we've heard his voice.

DWAYNE

Fuck!!!
(beat)

Fuck!!!

The others get out of the car and watch him.

SHERYL

What happened?

FRANK

He's colorblind. He can't fly.

SHERYL
Oh, Jesus. Oh, no.

Thirty yards away Dwayne falls to his knees, buries his hands and face in the grass, and SHRIEKS like a wild animal.

There's an out-of-control quality to his behavior that is scary and disturbing. Finally, Dwayne rolls to a sitting position, his hands covering his face.

He sits there crying. The others don't know what to do.

Richard glances at Sheryl. He points at his watch and shrugs.

SHERYL

Let's give him a second.

In the background, the VW keeps HONKING like some demonic beast -- mocking Dwayne's helplessness.

Finally, Sheryl approaches Dwayne.

SHERYL

Dwayne? Honey? I'm sorry.

He says nothing. She sighs.

SHERYL

Dwayne... Come on, we gotta go.
 
DWAYNE
I'm not going.

SHERYL

Dwayne...

DWAYNE

I'm not! I don't care! I'm not getting
in that bus again!

SHERYL
Dwayne... For better or worse: we're
your family...

Dwayne stands up and screams at them.

DWAYNE

You're not my family! I don't want
to be your family! I hate you fucking

people! I hate you!
(he points at them)
Divorce! Bankrupt! Suicide! You're

losers! You're fucking losers!

Everyone is stunned by this outburst. Dwayne puts his hands over his eyes and sits down again.

DWAYNE
Just leave me, Mom. Please? Just
leave me here.

Sheryl gets up and walks back to the others.

SHERYL

I don't know what to do.

RICHARD

We're gonna be late. Can we leave
somebody here with him?

FRANK
I'll stay.

SHERYL

No, we're not doing that.

RICHARD

Olive, you want to talk to him?

SHERYL
No, Richard. There's nothing to say.
We just have to wait.

A beat. Then Olive walks over and sits down next to Dwayne.

Dwayne's face is red and snot is dribbling from his nose. He has a piece of straw and he's poking some ants in the grass.

She puts her arm on his shoulder and watches him poke. The
 
ants climb busily over the grass. They sit quietly.

Then Dwayne stands up.

DWAYNE
Okay, let's go.

He walks back to the others. His voice is automatic.

DWAYNE
I apologize for the things I said. I
was upset. I didn't really mean them.

FRANK

(mock-tender)
Dwayne... We know you did.

SHERYL
Frank...

(to Dwayne)
It's okay. Let's just go.

They all start pushing the bus.

INT. VW BUS - ON THE ROAD - DAY

Richard is weaving through traffic -- the engine's REVVING VERY HIGH. Richard, Sheryl, Olive, and Frank are looking ahead intently. Dwayne is slouched in the back, staring at "nothing. The horn has tapered off to an occasional HONK.

Frank checks his watch.

FRANK

2:50...!

RICHARD

We're gonna make it! Olive, don't
worry! We'll be on time!

JUMP TO:

The same. Frank checks his watch.

FRANK
2:55!

RICHARD
Just look for the exit! It's coming

up!

JUMP TO:

The same. Frank checks his watch again.

FRANK
2:58!

No one says anything. Then Richard points.
 
RICHARD

There! That's it! Can anyone see a
Holiday Inn?

A beat. Olive points.

OLIVE
There! Little Miss Sunshine!

As they ride up the exit ramp, the sign in front of the Holiday Inn reads, "Little Miss Sunshine."

Richard comes off the ramp onto a four lane commercial road.

There's a maze of service roads and parking lots between him and the Holiday Inn. Richard is baffled.

RICHARD

How the fuck do you get over there?

SHERYL

Turn here! Turn here!

Richard takes a right into a service road.

SHERYL

Will you slow down?

RICHARD
I can't! I'm in third gear!

FRANK
2:59PM!

RICHARD
Does anyone see a turn-off? How the
fuck do you get over there?

They drive past the Holiday Inn -- a few hundred yards away.

OLIVE

Dad! You drove past it!

RICHARD
There's no place to turn in!

SHERYL
Turn around! You gotta turn around!

RICHARD
Okay, hold on, everybody.

The VW screeches around in a wide arc across four lanes of (luckily empty) traffic. Richard guns the under-revving engine. They again drive past the distant Holiday Inn.

RICHARD
Can anyone see a way in?
 
SHERYL

Go over there, then cut across!

RICHARD
Okay, hold on!

The VW squeals around a left turn onto another service road,

RICHARD
There's no way in! What the fuck?!

OLIVE
Dad! You're driving past it!

SHERYL
There! Into the parking lot!

She points. Richard turns into an enormous empty parking lot. He drives towards the Holiday inn in the distance.

There's still no clear path on how to get there.

RICHARD

It's a dead end!

SHERYL

No, go over there!

RICHARD
It's the same! There's no way...!

He turns the wheel and they begin tracing a wide loop -- bombing around the parking lot at 35mph in a holding pattern.

FRANK
Three o'clock!

OLIVE

Dad...!

SHERYL

Go back out!

RICHARD
We tried that! There's no way in!

SHERYL
So we just keep going in circles?

Richard says nothing. Finally:

RICHARD
Okay: Hold on, everybody! Olive, put
your seat belt on.

He comes out of a wide arc and heads straight for the median strips separating him from the Holiday Inn.
 
SHERYL
Oh, my God!

RICHARD

Hold on, everyone!

He guns it. As soon as he hits the first median, the HORN goes off and doesn't stop. They're in a new parking lot.

SHERYL
Look out!

Richard goes SCREECHING past several parked cars. They're one median strip away from the Holiday Inn parking lot.

RICHARD
One more! Here we go! Hold on!

They hit the median hard. A big bump. They've made it into the Holiday Inn parking lot. The whole van sags to the rear.

Frank looks out the rear window.

A tire is wheeling off across the parking lot by itself.

FRANK
We lost a tire, Rich!

RICHARD

We'll get it later! Here we go!

They come gliding into a parking space, HORN BLARING.

Frank yanks open the sliding door. It slides back, slams into the end of the track and derails. The whole door falls off the side of the van and into the parking lot.

Frank doesn't even look back. He sprints across the lot towards a distant banner marked "Little Miss Sunshine."

All the others -- except Dwayne -- sprint after him.

INT. REGISTRATION HALL - DAY

A big carpeted hotel lobby.

The doors open and Frank comes in, breathless. He stops.

The place is crawling with tiny blond girls and their stressed mothers. The girls are dressed, coifed and made-up to within an inch of their life.

Nearby, a CONTEST OFFICIAL is packing up her things behind a table with a "Registration" banner.

Frank sprints up to her. The others catch up and stand, looking on -- desperate, disheveled, breathing hard.

FRANK
 
Hi, we're here to register!

OFFICIAL
I'm sorry, we're closed.

FRANK
But we have an entrant. Right here.
We just need to check in.

OFFICIAL
Registration ended at three.

FRANK
It's three now!

OFFICIAL
No...

She points to a clock on the wall. It's 3:04PM,

RICHARD
Oh, have a heart! We're four minutes
late! We just drove all the way from
Maryland...!

OFFICIAL
Then you should have been here by
three.

She tries to leave. Richard stops her.

RICHARD

Wait, wait, wait! How can we make
this work?

OFFICIAL
Everyone else was here before three.
I'd be giving unfair advantage...

RICHARD
We're not asking for an advantage!
We just want to compete!

OFFICIAL

Don't yell at me, sir. I didn't make
you late. We've settled on the
schedule of the show and we've turned

off our computers. Now the show starts
in twenty minutes, I have a hair

check to do, I'm sorry you're late,
but I can't help you.

She tries to leave but they block her way. Richard gets on his knees.

RICHARD
Please! You don't know what we've

been through...!
 
SOUND GUY (O.S.)
Uh, Ms. Jenkins...?

They all turn. There's a SOUND GUY -- a very portly young man with a high voice -- who's clearly just heard the story.

SOUND GUY

I can put 'em in the system.

OFFICIAL
Oh, Kirby, you don't have to!

KIRBY
No, it's okay. It's five minutes.

OFFICIAL
Well... It's your time. 'Scuse me.

She pushes past them. Frank leaps up.

FRANK
Hello! Everyone?! We've just witnessed
a great act of compassion and human
kindness! Exhibit A: we've got Eva
Braun here -- making the trains run
on time, and B: Kirby! My man!
Currently the greatest human being

on the planet! Applause, please!

He leads the others in applause. Everyone else in the lobby ignores them. Kirby smiles, flips on the computer. They crowd around.

SHERYL

Thank you so much! You don't know
what this means...

KIRBY
Please. It's five minutes.

He glances in the direction of the Official, who has departed, and shakes his head. Quietly:

KIRBY

I ain't working for these people
again. These people are crazy.
(to Olive)

So, what's your name?

OLIVE
Olive.

KIRBY
Olive. That's a nice name.

She smiles. He starts tapping away at the computer.

Olive glances away and freezes. Across the room is Miss Florida, sitting behind a table, signing photos for kids.
 
Olive is in awe.

OLIVE

Mom! It's Miss Florida! Look! It's
really her!

SHERYL
You want to say hello?

Olive shakes her head, intimidated -- it's like meeting a god.

SHERYL

Come on, she looks nice. We'll just
say hi.
(to Richard)

You got this?

Richard nods -- I'll take care of it.

Sheryl drags Olive to the back of the line -- a half a dozen girls and their mothers. The GIRL in front of them turns and stares at Olive -- sizing up the competition. Olive smiles.

OLIVE
Hi...!

The Girl quickly turns back around, not saying anything.

Olive takes this in stride. Frank and Dwayne approach, carrying the family's luggage and a Sunday NY Times.

FRANK

Hey. I'm getting a room. We'll set
up a base camp.

SHERYL
Okay, we'll come find you.

Frank and Dwayne walk off. Olive watches them go, then turns and looks at the other girls.

Again, they're all miniature Barbies with expensive clothes and hair. All of them are several inches shorter than Olive, who is still dressed in her traveling clothes -- denim cut-offs and black Converse high-tops. She stands out.

Two TWIN GIRLS are chasing each other around, giggling.

Olive watches. Eventually, the Twins see Olive watching them.

They whisper to each other and giggle. Olive gives them a friendly half-smile. Finally, the Twin Girls approach Olive.

TWIN GIRL ONE
Are you on a diet?

OLIVE
 
What?

TWIN GIRL ONE
Are you on a diet?

OLIVE
No...!

TWIN GIRL TWO

Didn't think so!

They dissolve into giggles and run away. Olive is disturbed.

Sheryl is steamed but doesn't know what to do.

ACROSS THE ROOM

Kirby finishes up with Richard -- having him sign a release.

KIRBY
And sign...
(Richard signs)

...And you're done! Here's your
receipt; tickets; sash; tiara.
Anything else?

RICHARD

Yeah. Is there a funeral home around
here?

INT. HOLIDAY INN ROOM - DAY

A quiet, empty room.

Frank and Dwayne enter, dropping the luggage on the floor.

Dwayne immediately walks to a bed in the corner of the room and lies facing the wall. Frank surveys the room with a jaundiced eye. He walks over, peers out the window.

Frank turns, looks at Dwayne lying on the bed. He walks over, settles into a chair, pulls out his NY Times.

FRANK

Hey, you know, facing the wall like
that...? There's no way you gonna
stop me from killing myself. No way!

I could be out the window before you
even turn around.

A beat. He opens up a Sunday New York Times.

FRANK
Sorry.

He looks at Dwayne for a few beats, then shakes his head and opens up the Book Review section.

IN THE BOOK REVIEW
 
is a full-page ad for Understanding Proust by Larry Sugarman.

A banner reads, "The Surprise Bestseller from America's # 1 Proust Scholar!" There's a photo of Larry Sugarman, in a beard and glasses, looking very serious.

Frank stares at the ad.

EXT. HOLIDAY INN BALCONY - DAY

Frank opens a sliding door and steps on to the tiny balcony.

He walks to the edge and looks over.

It's eight floors down to the parking lot.

Frank considers the drop.

Then he pulls out his wallet and takes out the photograph.

THE PHOTO shows Frank and the Young Man from the convenience store at some chic party, wearing tuxes, smiling, and drinking Champagne.

Frank stares at the photo.

He looks up and surveys his surroundings -- a rather grim landscape of Burger Kings and Jiffy Lubes.

Quietly, he puts the photo away and turns back to the room.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

Richard approaches the VW bus with two funeral home WORKERS in jumpsuits who affect a bored, seen-it-all demeanor.

WORKER ONE, 40s, is an old pro. WORKER TWO, 20s, is a fresh-faced rookie. A FUNERAL HOME VAN is parked in the background.

RICHARD
...We're driving five, six hours --
we thought he was napping. By the
time we figured it out it was too
late.

WORKER ONE

...Too late. So where's the body?

Richard turns, pops the trunk, averts his eyes, and opens it.

The Workers look in the trunk. Then look at Richard.

INT. LOBBY - DAY

Olive finally makes it to the front of the line.

MISS FLORIDA
 
Hi! What's your name?

OLIVE
Olive.

MISS FLORIDA
What's your talent, Olive?

OLIVE

I like dancing!

MISS FLORIDA

Dancing? Dancing was too hard for
me! I'm a singer. You must be a good
dancer!

OLIVE

I am! I'm really good!

MISS FLORIDA
I bet you are! Well, thanks for
stopping by, Olive. Best of luck!

But Olive is not quite ready to move on.

OLIVE
Ummm... Miss Florida?

MISS FLORIDA

You can call me Bonnie!

OLIVE

Bonnie...? Do you eat ice cream?

MISS FLORIDA
(perplexed)
Yes! I love ice cream! My favorite

flavor is Chocolate Cherry Garcia.

Although, technically, I think that's

a frozen yogurt. Okay?

OLIVE

Okay, thank you, Bonnie! Bye!

MISS FLORIDA
Bye!
(to the next girl)

Hi, what's your name?

Sheryl and Olive head off.

OLIVE

She eats ice cream, Mom!

SHERYL
I	heard!

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY
 
Richard signs an invoice. Worker Two closes the rear doors

of the van, climbs in the driver's seat and starts the engine.

Richard hands the clipboard to Worker One. He hands Richard a cardboard box containing a wallet, glasses, a keychain, etc.

WORKER ONE
The personal effects...

RICHARD
Oh. Thank you.

WORKER ONE

You take care.

RICHARD

You too. Thanks.

Worker One gets in the van and slams the door.

The van pulls out, drives to the edge of the parking lot and puts on its turn signal. Richard watches. The van pulls into the street and drives off, disappearing into traffic.

Richard is left alone, holding the box of Grandpa's stuff.

INT. HOLIDAY INN ROOM - DAY

Sheryl and Olive enter. Dwayne is still on the bed facing the wall. Frank is slumped in a chair, staring at nothing.

SHERYL
Frank...? How're you guys doing?

Sheryl silently points at Dwayne. Frank shrugs. Sheryl goes and starts opening luggage. She pulls out a bathing suit.

SHERYL

Okay, Olive. Let's put on your
swimsuit. Here. You want to change
in the bathroom?

Olive takes the swim-suit and goes into the bathroom. Sheryl begins gathering up Olive's costumes.

SHERYL

Dwayne, I know you hate all of us
and want to kill yourself. But since

we're here anyway, why don't you
guys go to the beach?

FRANK
Hey, there's an idea! The beach!
Come on, we'll walk over, go surfing,
maybe meet some chicks... Whaddaya
say?

INT. HOLIDAY INN BATHROOM - DAY
 
Olive finishes putting on her swim-suit. There's a full-length mirror on the back of the bathroom door.

Olive turns around and reaches for the door knob. She stops.

She steps back and looks at herself in the mirror.

She turns sideways. She sucks her stomach in.

This is the first time she's ever done this.

SHERYL (O.S.)
Frank, here's your tickets. That's
you and Dwayne. She's going on last,
now, because we were late...

FRANK (O.S.)
We'll be there. Don't worry.

Olive turns back frontal. She lets her stomach hang out.

She's not happy with what she sees -- also the first time.

INT. HOLIDAY INN ROOM - DAY

Sheryl finishes gathering up Olive's costumes.

SHERYL

Olive, you ready? We gotta go!

OLIVE (O.S.)

Coming!

INT. HOLIDAY INN BATHROOM - DAY

Olive stares at herself in the mirror. She's making up her mind about something. (Winner or Loser?)

Then, very determined, she walks out of the bathroom.

INT. HOLIDAY INN ROOM - DAY

Olive comes out. Sheryl is there.

SHERYL
You ready? Let's go!
(to Frank)
Frank, do your best!

They exit. A beat. Dwayne sits up.

He's depressed, but no longer catatonic. He looks at Frank.

DWAYNE
Let's get out of here.

INT. LOBBY - DAY
 
Richard -- holding the box of Grandpa's stuff -- finds a bench and sits down. He seems shaken,

Around him, the pre-pageant hubbub is at a fever pitch.

He flips through Grandpa's stuff -- keys, glasses, gum.

He looks up and surveys the frenetic activity -- mothers combing their daughters' hair, little girls practicing ballet moves, girls crying, girls laughing and chasing each other.

Then, across the lobby, the elevator doors open and Sheryl and Olive step off carrying garment bags and travel cases.

Richard gets up and intercepts them. Sheryl sees him coming.

SHERYL

Hey. D'you take care of...?

RICHARD
Yeah, I did. Wait a sec. Olive, come
here. Time for a pep talk.

SHERYL

Richard, we're late already...!

RICHARD

This is important! Olive, come here.

She goes to him. He hunches down, takes her hand, searching for words as if the very meaning of his life were at stake.

RICHARD
Olive... I know you and Grandpa worked

on this together. I know how much it
meant to him. We drove nine hundred
miles to get here. Our car broke

down. We've been through a lot. But
I think it'd all be worth it... if
you won tonight.

SHERYL

Richard! Jesus! Olive, come on!

She tries to pull Olive away but Richard holds on to her.

RICHARD

Okay, Olive? Okay?

Olive stares. She really wants to please him. She nods.

RICHARD

Good girl! Go knock 'em dead!

Sheryl shakes her head and pulls Olive off towards the backstage area. Richard watches them go.

INT. BACKSTAGE - DAY
 
Sheryl and Olive wander past one little girl after another -- each being primped to perfection by her Mom or a Groomer.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Sheryl finds a tiny empty dressing room in back and hangs a garment bag of Olive's costumes on the door.

SHERYL

Okay, we have about one minute. You
want to do hair or make-up?

Olive thinks. It's like the fate of the free world is at stake. Finally?

OLIVE
Make-up...!

Kirby pokes his head in the door,

KIRBY
Hey. I need your music!

Olive goes to her bag, digs in, hands him a disc.

OLIVE
Here.

KIRBY

This? Did you choose this?

OLIVE

My Grandpa did.

KIRBY
Your Grandpa? What track?

OLIVE
Twelve. Oh, one thing...?

She glances at Sheryl, then goes and whispers in Kirby's ear. Kirby smiles.

KIRBY

Okay, you got it.

OLIVE

Thank you, Kirby!

KIRBY
I'll be looking for you.

He departs.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Richard finds his reserved seats -- four seats on the aisle. He sits in the fourth seat and lays his jacket across the other three, saving them for Sheryl, Dwayne, and Frank,
 
The guy next to him is a grizzled BIKER sitting impassively with his arms folded. Richard tries to be friendly.

RICHARD
Hey.

The Biker glances at him and nods. Richard persists.

RICHARD
You got a kid in the show?

The Biker looks at him. He takes an earplug out of his ear.

BIKER
What?

RICHARD
You got a kid in the show?

The Biker stares at him.

BIKER
First time?

Richard nods -- Yeah! The Biker nods -- Figures. He puts the earplug back in his ear and resumes his impassive stare.

Richard is unnerved. The LIGHTS DIM.

Onstage, an MC steps up to a microphone. A DRUMROLL.

MC
Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the

14th annual Little Miss Sunshine
pageant! Let's welcome the
contestants!

MUSIC. Big APPLAUSE.

Twenty-five little girls parade out on stage in swim-suits. Twenty of them are blond -- some bleached. They've been arranged from shortest to tallest.

Olive -- at least two inches taller than everyone else -- is at the end of the line.

The girls parade around in a loop, waving and smiling.

They end up in a line running across the stage.

MC

We have twenty five contestants from
all over the State of Florida. At
the end of the evening, one of these
girls will be crowned Little Miss
Sunshine!

Richard, in the audience, claps enthusiastically. The Biker
 
claps without enthusiasm.

EXT. BEACH - AFTERNOON

A glorious, sunny day. The ocean stretches out to infinity.

Dwayne and Frank, in swim trunks, are at a surfboard rental shop on the beach. The ocean's dead calm. Frank is handing money to a DUDE at the shop. Dwayne looks out at the water.

DWAYNE
There's no waves, Frank.

FRANK

We don't need waves. We'll just paddle
out.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

The MC is up on the stage. Another DRUMROLL.

MC

...Let's hear a big round of applause
for the evening wear!

MUSIC. Big APPLAUSE. The same girls -- in precocious evening-wear -- come out in the same order and do the same little loop around the stage. Olive's on the end again.

Richard, in the crowd, applauds -- a little less heartily.

EXT. ON THE WATER - DAY

Frank and Dwayne paddle straight out into the ocean. It's calm, but the shore is a long way away. Dwayne looks back.

DWAYNE

How far are we?

FRANK
I dunno. Quarter mile?

DWAYNE
You wanna stop?

Frank shrugs. They stop. Frank looks down into the water.

FRANK
Hey. Think you can touch bottom?

DWAYNE
How far is it?

FRANK

Must be ten, twelve feet. Come on!
Y'ready? On your mark, get set...

They dive down into the water.
 
EXT. UNDERWATER - DAY

It's about fifteen feet to the white sand on the bottom.

Dwayne swims all the way down to the bottom.

Frank swims down more slowly. He finally makes it.

He comically mimes that he's drowning.

Then he and Dwayne come back up.

EXT. ON THE WATER - DAY

They resurface.

FRANK

Victory! Yes!

They rest on their surfboards, breathing hard.

Then, without waiting, Dwayne dives down in the water again.

EXT. UNDERWATER - DAY - MONTAGE

Shots of Frank and Dwayne swimming in the blue water with white sand and shafts of sunlight.

It's beautiful.

They do flips, twists, spins.

Dwayne swims down to the bottom again. He stays, looking up at the surface, Frank's legs, his empty board, the sunlight.

Then he swims back up to the surface.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

The MC is up on stage. Another DRUMROLL.

MC

And now! The moment you've been
waiting for! The talent competition!
Ladies and gentleman, please welcome
Amber Tiffany Harper, who'll be
singing a tune from the Broadway

show, "Annie." Amber...!

A little girl walks out -- very stagy -- and begins

AMBER

"The sun'll come out... tomorrow..."

Richard sits in the audience. He's growing uneasy.

EXT. ON THE WATER - DAY

They sit on their boards and look out to sea.
 
FRANK

Man, it's beautiful out here.
(beat)
I don't know if I believe in God,
but the ocean -- it's always here
for you: infinitely bigger than you

are, and completely indifferent.
So... My version of God.

DWAYNE
Frank...?
(Frank looks over)
What'd it feel like when you cut
your wrists?

Frank takes a breath.

FRANK

You know, I wish I could tell you I
felt bad. But I didn't. I was...
Outside the world, y'know? It was

very peaceful.
(beat)
But, I'm feeling that way now, too,
so...

He shrugs. Dwayne nods. He looks out to sea.

DWAYNE
Sometimes I wish I could just go to
sleep until I was eighteen. Just

skip all this crap -- high school
and everything. Just skip it...

He shakes his head.

FRANK
Y'ever hear of Marcel Proust?

DWAYNE
He's the guy you teach?

FRANK

Yeah. French writer. Total loser.
Never had a real job. Unrequited
love affairs. Gay. Spent twenty years

writing a book almost no one reads.
But... he was also probably the

greatest writer since Shakespeare.
Anyway, he gets down to the end of

his life, he looks back and he decides

that all the years he suffered --
those were the best years of his
life. Because they made him who he
was. They forced him to think and
grow, and to feel very deeply. And

the years he was happy? Total waste.
Didn't learn anything.
 
Dwayne grins.

FRANK

So, if you sleep til you're
eighteen...
(scoffs)

...Think of the suffering you'd miss!
High school's your prime suffering
years. You don't get better suffering
than that! Unless you go into
academia, but that's a different

story.

They share a smile. Dwayne gazes out to sea. A beat.

DWAYNE

You know what...?
(Frank looks over)

Fuck beauty contests. It's like life
is one fucking beauty contest after
another these days. School, then

college, then work. Fuck it. Fuck
the Naval Academy. Fuck the MacArthur
Foundation. If I want to fly, I'll
find a way to fly. You do what you
love and fuck the rest.

Frank stares at Dwayne, impressed. Dwayne glances at Frank, who tries to play it cool.

FRANK

I'm glad you're talking again, Dwayne.
You're not nearly as stupid as you

look.

Dwayne smiles.	Frank looks around.

FRANK

So now what do we do?

DWAYNE

You got me, Frank. Maybe we can stay
out here forever.

A beat. They look at each other.

DWAYNE
We should go.

They begin paddling back to shore.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

A tiny girl in a COWGIRL outfit -- smiling like crazy -- taps her way through a tap-dance routine. She's fantastic.

Richard's smile is fading. He's really starting to worry.
 
EXT. BOARDWALK -	DAY

Frank exits a T-shirt shop and throws a shirt to Dwayne.

FRANK
I can't believe we found these. I
hope they fit.

As they stride up the boardwalk, he strips off his shirt and puts on his new T-shirt. In big block letters, it says:

"LOSER"

Dwayne puts on his. It's the same. Frank looks at him.

FRANK
You're every mother's dream, Dwayne.
Come on.

They head off.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Another TINY BLONDE GIRL sings while flouncing and prancing across the stage, blowing kisses and twirling a parasol.

She skips around the MC, flirting and batting her eyes,

The audience -- charmed -- starts clapping along. As she finishes, the audience rises as one in a standing ovation.

Richard is the only one to remain seated. His face sinks as reality finally hits him -- there's no way Olive will win.

HE GETS UP AND DEPARTS,

INT. LOBBY - DAY

Frank and Dwayne enter and stride towards the doors of the auditorium. A pant-suited GRANDMA is sneaking a smoke.

FRANK

Is it over?

GRANDMA
Not yet.

They open the door and walk into a BLAST of syrupy singing.

The door shuts. The door reopens. Frank and Dwayne stagger out. They look at each other.

DWAYNE
I'm going backstage.

FRANK
Right. See ya.

Dwayne heads off as Frank leans against a wall, recovering.
 
INT. BACKSTAGE - DAY

Dwayne strides through the backstage, looking for Sheryl and Olive. With his wet Mohawk and LOSER t-shirt, he stands out.

A PAGEANT OFFICER tries to stop him.

PAGEANT OFFICER

Excuse me? You authorized to be
backstage?

DWAYNE
No.

He continues walking. Everywhere there are little blond girls crying, whining, or lolling about. All the mothers are over-dressed, over-coifed, and over-stressed. It's depressing.

He stops, turns to a little PRINCESS slouched on a sofa.

DWAYNE

Hey. Where are the dressing rooms?

PRINCESS
Are you allowed to be here?

DWAYNE
Just tell me where the dressing rooms
are.

PRINCESS

(yelling off-screen)
Security! Security!!! Help!!!

Dwayne rolls his eyes, moves on.

INT. BACKSTAGE, DRESSING ROOMS - DAY

Richard wanders through the backstage. He spots Sheryl and Olive in a small dressing room in the back. He approaches.

Olive is sitting in a make-up chair, wearing gold hot pants and a red top. It's a slightly bizarre ensemble, given her girlish plumpness. Richard hesitates. Sheryl sees him.

SHERYL

Hey. What're you doing?

RICHARD
I came to wish Olive good luck.
(to Olive)

How're you doin'?

OLIVE
(weak)
Good.

SHERYL
 
(sotto voce)
Nervous.

RICHARD

You're gonna do great! I know it!
(to Sheryl)
Can I talk to you a sec?

She nods. They wander a few steps out of Olive's hearing range. Richard is agitated, troubled.

SHERYL

What's up?

RICHARD
(hesitates)
I don't want Olive to go on.

SHERYL

(can't believe it)
Are you kidding...?!!!

RICHARD
We're not in Maryland anymore, all
right? She's out of her league here.

SHERYL

So...?

RICHARD
Sheryl...! She's not gonna win.
There's no fucking way.

SHERYL

It doesn't matter...!

RICHARD

It does matter!

SHERYL
It doesn't matter!

RICHARD
It does!!!

Suddenly, all Richard's emotions rush to the surface.

RICHARD
I don't want her to lose. I know

what that feels like. It's not good.
We can't let that happen.

She stares at him. It's the first time he's admitted to any kind of vulnerability or weakness. She takes his hand.

SHERYL
They look at each other. This is the

first honest moment we've seen between
them.
 
Unfortunately, they are interrupted by Dwayne, who enters -- a determined look on his face. Sheryl sees him coming.

SHERYL
Hey. How're you feeling?!

DWAYNE
Better. Where's Olive?

SHERYL
In the dressing room. What's up?

DWAYNE

(hesitates, then sotto)
I don't want Olive doing this.

SHERYL
Oh, my God...!

RICHARD
See?!

DWAYNE

Mom, look around! This place is
fucked! I don't want these people
judging Olive! Fuck them!

RICHARD

Exactly! Fuck them!

Dwayne glances at Richard, unnerved by his agreement.

SHERYL

No, Dwayne. It's too late...

DWAYNE

It's not too late! You're the Mom!
You're supposed to protect her!

Sheryl stares at him. A clipboard-wielding, head-set wearing ASSISTANT passes by and calls out.

ASSISTANT

Olive Harvey! Two minutes.

He walks on. They watch him go. Dwayne and Sheryl face off.

DWAYNE

She's not a beauty queen, Mom...

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Olive stands near the doorway, listening. Her face betrays nothing. Dwayne's VOICE is faint but clear.

DWAYNE (O.S.)

...She's just not.
 
INT. BACKSTAGE - NIGHT

Sheryl and Dwayne stare at each other.

SHERYL
Listen to me.
(teary-eyed)

Olive is who she is. This is what
she's chosen to do...

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Olive turns, walks mechanically back to her chair and sits.

SHERYL (O.S.)
...She's worked hard, she's poured

INT. BACKSTAGE - NIGHT

Sheryl puts a hand on Dwayne's shoulder.

SHERYL

...We can't take it away from her.
We just can't.

Dwayne closes his eyes, hangs his head. Sheryl hugs him.

SHERYL
I know you want to protect her, but...
We gotta let Olive be Olive. For
better or worse...

The clipboard-wielding ASSISTANT returns.

ASSISTANT
Olive Harvey? Are you the Harveys?

They nod and return -- en masse -- to the dressing room.
Olive is seated in her chair, staring dumbly at the floor.

SHERYL
Olive? Time to go.

Olive doesn't move. Sheryl goes to her.

SHERYL
Olive...? Honey, are you okay?

Olive won't look at her. Sheryl glances at Richard.

ASSISTANT
Urn... We need to go.

SHERYL

Hang on.
(to Olive)
Honey...? Olive, look at me.

(Olive looks)
You don't have to do this if you
 
don't want. If you want to sit this
one out, that's fine. We're proud of

you anyway, okay?

A beat. The Assistant checks his watch,

ASSISTANT

It's time.

Silence.

Olive stands up. She walks to the Assistant.

ASSISTANT

Okay. Let's go.

He takes her hand. They stride off.

Dwayne, Sheryl, and Richard stand together and watch -- mutually powerless -- as Olive is lead off.

TRACKING BACKWARDS with Olive. She's got her game face on -- a mask of fear and determination. Sheryl calls after her.

SHERYL
Good luck, honey!

Olive keeps walking, not looking back.

INT. AUDITORIUM LOBBY - DAY

Frank re-enters. Dwayne and Sheryl are coming the other way.

FRANK

Is she going on?

DWAYNE

She's going on.

They enter the auditorium together.

INT. AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

Yet another LITTLE BLOND GIRL is onstage, taking her bows to polite APPLAUSE. Richard leads Sheryl, Dwayne, and Frank to their seats. The MC comes on stage.

MC
Very nice. Thank you. Okay, you've

been a patient audience tonight...

IN THE WINGS

Olive stands next to the edge of the curtain watching the MC.

MC

...We have one more contestant and
then we'll be crowning the winner.
 
So please welcome, from the Fort
Myers district, Olive Harvey!

APPLAUSE.

WE FOLLOW Olive out onto the stage.

The LIGHTS are blinding.

The AUDIENCE is hidden in darkness.

There's a crowd MURMUR because of her hot-pants get-up.

Dwayne, Frank, Sheryl, and Richard applaud nervously.

Richard takes Sheryl's hand, squeezes it. They share a look.

Olive waves over the MC. He walks over to her and holds the mic down for her to speak. She takes a breath.

OLIVE
I'd like to dedicate this to my
Grandpa, who helped me do this
routine.

MC
That's sweet! Is he here? Where's
your Grandpa right now?

OLIVE
He's in the trunk of our car.

The MC doesn't know how to react.

MC
Okay! Well! Take it away, Olive!

He retreats. She is alone on stage. Some 12 YEAR OLD BOYS in the audience decide to be cruel. One of them "moos".

BOY ONE
Moooo!

GIGGLES and SHUSHES. Another boy chimes in.

BOY TWO
Arf! Arf! Arf!

More GIGGLES and SHUSHES. Miss Florida, at the judges table by the stage, looks around sternly. She feels bad for Olive.

Olive is confused. She doesn't understand these noises.

Dwayne hangs his head. Frank looks around.

FRANK
Where are those fuckers?! I'll kill

'em!
 
Then Olive finds what she's looking for:

Kirby, in the sound booth.

He nods at her. She nods at him.

Then Olive turns around, her back to the audience.

Kirby turns a VOLUME knob up to "6". He hits "play" .

The music clearly depends on the rights. For specificity, we'll use "Peach" by Prince.

A BLAST of hard rock 12 bar blues comes out of the speakers.

Everyone is surprised.

The music is hard-driving and nasty. It is completely different from the other pageant music we've heard so far.

For the first four measures, with Prince saying, "Here she comes," and "She got them gold hot-pants on again," Olive barely moves, rocking her shoulders and hips to the beat.

Dwayne, Frank, Sheryl, and Richard all glance at each other.

This is not what they expected.

No one knows what to make of Olive rocking, her back turned.

However, when the first verse begins, Olive turns and strides up the stage -- hands on hips, shoulders swinging -- with an absolute and spectacular physical self-confidence.

She rocks out, busting crazy moves this stage has never seen: shakes, shimmies, twirls, dips, undulations -- a melange of MTV rump-shakin', Solid Gold Dancers re-runs, and out-of-left-field inventions of her own. Other moves are clearly drawn from Grandpa's sixty-year career of strip-bar patronage.

She dances with a total command -- an exuberant, even witty mastery of her body, the music, the moves, everything.

Most of all, she's doing it for herself -- for her own sense of fun -- and the judges are instantly irrelevant.

The audience is stunned. No one moves. Mouths hang open.

Sheryl, Frank, and Dwayne gape. Richard is baffled.

RICHARD
What's she doing? What the hell is
she doing?!

When the first verse ends, Olive punctuates the 12-bar vamp with a series of violent pelvic thrusts.

Everyone is totally shocked. No one knows how to react.
 
SHERYL
Oh, my God...!

Abruptly, Frank starts laughing in disbelief.

He stands and begins cheering Olive, pumping his fist and grooving to the music.

Richard stares at Frank. Cautiously encouraged, he stands and cheers along with Frank -- tentative at first, then more and more unselfconsciously.

Sheryl and Dwayne join in, relieved and amazed.

Grandpa was right -- she's blowing them out of the water.

As the second verse ends and the guitar solo begins, Olive punctuates the vamp with another series of thrusts.

This is too much for the contest Official from the registration desk, who sits near the stage at the table of contest JUDGES, including Miss Florida. She looks around and spots Sheryl, Richard, Frank, et al, standing and cheering.

The Official gets up, walks up the aisle and yells at Sheryl.

OFFICAL

What is your daughter doing?!

Sheryl -- taken aback -- shrugs. Richard leans in.

RICHARD

She's kicking ass, is what she's
doing!

The others smile and nod. The Official is incensed. She turns and walks back to the sound booth. She yells at Kirby.

OFFICIAL

Turn it off!

KIRBY

What?

OFFICIAL
Turn the music off!!!

KIRBY
(fake deaf)

What...?!

He smiles and cranks the music up to "8". Mothers and children in the audience clap their hands over their ears.

The audience polarizes -- some (the Grizzled Biker; Miss Florida) stand and cheer while others sit dumbfound or frown disapprovingly, shaking their heads. Still others flee for the exit, heads down, hands over their ears.
 
The Official, furious, leaves Kirby and stalks down the aisle to the stage. Sheryl watches with growing worry.

SHERYL

What's she doing? Look...!

She shakes Richard, points.

The Official goes to the MC -- at the side of the stage -- waves to him. He bends down, listens. He nods.

The MC walks onstage and tries to stop Olive from dancing, grabbing her arms.

Olive doesn't know what he's doing, but she won't let him break her routine. She wiggles away and keeps dancing.

Richard -- outraged -- races to the front of the auditorium, leaps on the stage, jumps on the MC's back and rides him -- piggy-back -- into the wings. They crash to the ground.

Olive stops dancing, turns and looks at Richard.

Richard, grappling with the MC, waves her on.

RICHARD
Keep dancing, Honey! Just dance!

Olive turns and stares at the audience.

Dwayne, Frank and Sheryl are gesturing -- "Keep going!"

Olive -- hearing the music, seeing Sheryl, Frank, and Dwayne cheering her -- starts to dance again, fluid and relaxed.

Richard disentangles himself from the pissed-off MC as STAGEHANDS step in and pull them apart. Richard shrugs off their restraining hands, then turns to watch Olive dance.

The Contest Official steps forward and angrily confronts him.

OFFICIAL
Get your daughter off stage now!

Richard -- taken aback -- hesitates. She presses him.

OFFICIAL
If you don't stop her, she'll be

disqualified!

Richard stares at her. Then he nods.

RICHARD

Okay.

He turns and walks out on stage.

Olive, seeing him, is confused. He steps up behind her.
 
Then Richard starts dancing. They dance together: Olive in front, Richard backing her up.

Richard looks at the Official with a defiant, fuck-you smile.

Sheryl, Frank and Dwayne, watching, can't believe it.

DWAYNE

Holy shit...!

FRANK

(to Sheryl)
You married that guy?

Sheryl shakes her head -- she can't believe it either.

Frank runs down the aisle, jumps on stage, and dances next to Richard -- a surprisingly competent set of butt-wagging, party-music moves. Dwayne follows Frank up on stage.

Sheryl pauses a moment and watches her family.

Richard waves to Sheryl to join them.

A beat. Then Sheryl walks, then runs, and jumps up on stage.
Richard helps her up, and they dance together.

Kirby cranks it to "10". MUSIC is overpowering everything.

As the songs winds up, Sheryl lines up next to Olive for a unified series of thrusts.

As the final cymbal crashes, Olive pulls up her shirt to reveal "Peach" is written on her tummy with magic marker.

Audience MEMBERS respond with a standing ovation.

Frank and Dwayne strut around with their arms in the air, like victorious professional wrestlers,

Richard picks up Olive, swings her in the air. Sheryl walks over and hugs Richard and Olive.

FADE TO BLACK AND SILENCE

INT. OFFICE - NIGHT

Richard, Sheryl, Olive, Frank, and Dwayne sit -- dazed -- in a drab office. They're all handcuffed together, except Olive.

Nothing's happening. Flourescent lights HUM.

Frank and Dwayne are still wearing their "LOSER" T-shirts.

Boxes of pageant materials -- trophies, sashes, tiaras -- are stacked around them.

Sheryl quietly eyes Richard, slouched next to her, and smiles
 
to herself. Her eyes drift to a nearby carton of tiaras.

A door OPENS. They all look over.

A COP appears, starts taking off their handcuffs.

COP

Okay. You're out.

RICHARD
We're free?

COP
They're dropping charges. On the
condition that you don't enter your
child in a beauty contest in the
State of Florida ever again.

FRANK

(hesitates)
I think we can live with that.

INT. HOLIDAY INN LOBBY - NIGHT

Richard, Sheryl. Olive, Frank, and Dwayne step into the lobby.

It's deserted. Decorations and banners litter the floor.

They wander out, dazed, rubbing their wrists.

Sheryl approaches Richard, takes a tiara from behind her back, places it on his head. Richard accepts it wryly.

RICHARD

Great. Thank you very much.

She smiles. Richard turns to Olive with the tiara.

RICHARD

Here. I think this is for you.

OLIVE

Dad...!

She struggles to articulate something. Finally, she shrugs.

OLIVE

I just like dancing...!

RICHARD
Well, you were great.

FRANK
You were beyond great.

DWAYNE
You were incredible.

OLIVE
 
(shy)
Thank you.

They all smile at her. Then Richard looks around.

RICHARD
Let's get the fuck out of here...!

CUT TO BLACK

SOUNDS of cars on a distant highway.

RICHARD (V.O.)
...So it's two in the morning...

EXT. REST STOP - DAY

Everyone is seated at a picnic table at a road-side rest stop. Cars WHIZZ by on a highway in the far background.

They've finished eating -- an empty bucket of KFC and bottles of Diet Sprite litter the table. Richard is telling a story.

Everyone is relaxed -- smiling and listening.

RICHARD
...He's down on his knees in this
dumpster behind the racetrack... And
it starts to rain.
(laughter)
It's wet... It's hot... He's crawling
around in this garbage, cursing like

a pirate -- looking for this ticket
that I threw away -- and all of a

sudden he goes, "Richard, don't drop
the light!" And I go, "Don't what?"
(mimes holding light)

And he goes, "Drop the fucking
light!!!" So I go...
(mimes dropping light)
Right in the water! He's like...
(mimes electric shock)

Ahhhaahhhaahhhaahhhhhh!!!
(appalled laughter)
I run back, unplug the light, run to
the dumpster -- he's lying there,
rain is pouring down... And he's got

the ticket! This twelve hundred dollar
trifecta ticket! And I'm like, "Dad!

Dad, are you okay?" And he looks at
me and all he says is: "Richard...
Don't ever have children."

Everyone bursts out laughing.

RICHARD
To me, he says that! To me!

The mirth tapers off. They glance at each other.
 
Frank holds up his bottle of Diet Sprite.

FRANK

Here's to Grandpa.

EVERYONE

Here's to Grandpa.

They clink and drink. Richard nods to a snack shack nearby.

RICHARD

So... Who wants some ice-cream?

CUT TO BLACK

THE END
