INT. BEN AND GEORGE’S APT, BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

The early morning sun fights to get in the bedroom through the edges of well drawn shades.

BENJAMIN HULL(”Ben”), early 70s, is in bed awake. Next to him lies GEORGE GAREA, early 60s, turned on his side, still asleep.

Ben is still. The only movement is in his eyes, shimmering with expectation.


INT. BEN AND GEORGE’S APT, BATHROOM - DAY

George, handsome, well groomed and with an impeccable white shirt, is in front of the mirror tying the knot on his tie. He tries once and, not happy with the result, repositions the tie around his neck, and tries it again. Voices can be heard in the background.

Ben enters dressed in a suit and a bow tie - the man has style. He’s looking in the bathroom for something he might have lost. He looks on top of a pile of magazines by the toilet.

GEORGE
What?

BEN
My glasses. I can’t find my

glasses.

Ben looks around the sink where George is, briefly interrupting his concentration with the tie.

GEORGE
Oh, no. Not today. Please.

Ben walks out, without his glasses. George hasn’t gotten a good knot on his tie yet.


INT. BEN AND GEORGE’S APT, LIVING ROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

ZLATA, the housekeeper, Polish and in her 40’s, comes in from the kitchen bringing a big vase of flowers, which she places on the coffee table.

The living room is spacious, high ceilings, comfortable furniture. There’s a piano in the corner, art on the wall, a dining table for 6 people and an umbrella holder by the front door.
 


(CONTINUED)
 
2.

CONTINUED:

Ben is rearranging books and objects around, while looking for his glasses. EUGENIA, early 30’s, ZLATA’s pretty younger sister, is dusting off the book shelves. She finds a pair of reading glasses - EUGENIA speaks with a heavy Polish accent.

EUGENIA
I find Mr. Ben.

Ben comes to look.

BEN
Yes! Thank you, sweetie. Where’s

the list?

EUGENIA
(in Polish)

Zlata, you have the list.

ZLATA
It’s in the kitchen.

Ben goes into the kitchen.


INT. BEN AND GEORGE’S APT, KITCHEN - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Ben is reading a small list on a piece of paper. Zlata is cutting up more flowers by the sink.

BEN
I think 40 will do. Maybe Eugenia

can go to the grocery for you?

Ben opens his wallet and realizes he only has a couple of single dollar bills.

BEN (CONT’D)
And the lasagna?

ZLATA
I’ve just put it in the oven.

Ben can’t resist; he goes to take a peek inside the oven.

BEN
Looks delicious.

George comes in, in a suit and a tie, his face and hair perfectly fresh.

GEORGE
Let me see.
 



(CONTINUED)
 
3.

CONTINUED:

He can’t resist and also goes to peek at the lasagna in the oven.

BEN
(to George)

Honey, do you have any cash?

GEORGE
(to Zlata)
It’s not too early to be heating

this up?

ZLATA
Close the door! I know what I’m

doing.

Zlata slaps his hand. George closes the oven.

GEORGE
So how do I look?

Zlata opens a big smile and gives George a hug and a kiss.

ZLATA
Fabulous. Both of you.

BEN
It’s almost eleven, George. We

have to go.

GEORGE
I’m waiting for you.

BEN
Sure. I need some cash for

Eugenia.

ZLATA
You smell so good too.

George takes out his wallet.

GEORGE
Thank you.

Before George can ask how much, Ben grabs two 20 dollar bills and leaves them on the counter. George is used to these kind of dynamics, and simply folds the wallet and puts it back into his pocket.

BEN
Let’s go. Thank you Zlata.
 



(CONTINUED)
 
4.

CONTINUED: (2)

GEORGE
We’ll be back around 1:30.

BEN
Honey said she’d stop by before
the ceremony, but I don’t know

where she is.

GEORGE
(laughing)

Honey and her monsters.

ZLATA
It’s okay, I’m here.


INT. BENJAMIN & GEORGE’S APT, LIVING ROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Eugenia is still cleaning. Ben looks around, moves the vase of flowers on the table by a few inches.

BEN
Eugenia, I left some money with
Zlata for the things we still

need.

EUGENIA
Okay. I go to the grocery on 14th.

BEN
No. Go to the nicer one, the one
on 23rd. This is a special

occasion.

Ben gets the keys on the table and moves towards the door.

BEN
Do you have the papers?

GEORGE
Yes. I have them. Let’s go.


EXT. STREETS OF CHELSEA - DAY

Ben and George are on the streets trying to catch a cab. A couple of OCCUPIED ones rush by as George still tries to convince them to stop.

BEN
We should’ve left earlier.
 



(CONTINUED)
 
5.

CONTINUED:

GEORGE
It’ll be okay.

George keeps waving as OFF DUTY or busy cabs fly by.

BEN
(impatient)

They’re full, George.

GEORGE
Let’s go to Seventh. Come on!

George starts to trot towards the Avenue.

BEN
Wait!

Ben tries to follow, but after a few fast steps, he is too tired, or too old to run. He simply walks towards the corner.

BEN
I don’t want to get all sweaty.


8	INT. 6BC BOTANICAL GARDEN - DAY	8

A lush community garden in the middle of the city, surrounded by NYC buildings. Friends and family of all ages are gathered for the ceremony, standing and sitting in a small clearing to the side. The MARRIAGE OFFICIANT, a very enthusiastic man in his 40’s, is standing in front of the audience, with George and Ben next to his side, smiling, paying attention to every word.

OFFICIANT
Welcome everybody, it’s really
wonderful to have all of you here
in this oasis in the middle of
Manhattan. And thank you George
and Ben for asking me to do this.
And thank you two for allowing me
to do this. I want you to know
that it’s an honor for me.

George dries out a few drops of sweat on his forehead with a handkerchief.
 










(CONTINUED)
 
6.

8	CONTINUED:	8

OFFICIANT
And for everybody who’s here, I
would like to ask you to get rid
of everything that’s in your head
about anything else, and
concentrate only on this moment,
and the ceremony, and these two
people who we’re about to join
together.

Sitting on the chairs, in the audience, are Ben’s nephew ELLIOT and his wife KATE, in their 40s. She reaches for his hand.

OFFICIANT (O.S.)
Try to stop thinking about your
jobs, your marriage, your
schoolwork, what you have to do
tomorrow and what you forgot to do
today. Let’s just focus all our
energies, and all our love on
these two men here: George and
Ben.

A cell phone rings, with a cutting edge rap song, interrupting the speech. There’s laughter all around. Kate pokes her 15 year old son JOEY, who immediately silences his iPhone.

OFFICIANT
I’d also like to ask the audience
here to be part of this ceremony
today. You are already a part of
the community that made this love
possible. You have made this
moment possible.

Right behind them is ROBERTO, dark skin, Domenican-American, early 40’s. Sitting next to him is his partner TED, a good looking all American man, early 30’s. And HONEY (late 50s), an old friend of the couple’s, in an elegant dress, conservative but also a touch glamorous.

Roberto shoots a picture with his phone, while Ted fights a yawn - maybe from a sleepless night.

OFFICIANT
And so I ask all of you, if you
would commit to support and honor
these two individuals in their
life, and in their love, and in

their marriage together...
 




(CONTINUED)
 
7.

8	CONTINUED: (2)	8

George raises his eyes up above, as if silently thanking God, as Ben, standing next to him, absorbs each word with a smile.

OFFICIANT
...through the bad times and the
good times, through rain and
shine, in sickness and in

health...

There are a few other FRIENDS and COLLEAGUES, and last, but not least, MINDY, Ben’s nervous looking older niece, who’s already crying, next to her boyfriend JOHN, a friendly looking man her own age.

OFFICIANT
Will you make that commitment

today?

Smiles all around. Honey has an enthusiastic response, while Mindy raises both arms, sending good vibes. Roberto raises his iPhone, registering the moment on filming mode.

ALL AUDIENCE
Yes!

OFFICIANT
Now, under the training that we
get, there’s something I have to
ask, and the answer may seem
obvious but still, it is a very
important question: are both of
you making this decision of your
own free will?

Somebody in the audience laughs, and it’s contagious.
George looks at Ben, both wanting to laugh.

GEORGE
Yes.

BEN
Yes.

OFFICIANT
All right. We are gathered here in the presence of these witnesses today, with the purpose of uniting in matrimony...

George reaches for Ben, and they hold each other’s hands as they look in each other’s eyes, and smile.
 


(CONTINUED)
 
8.

8	CONTINUED: (3)	8

OFFICIANT (O.S.)
...George Esteban Garea and
Benjamin Arthur Hull. Let me
remind you that the contract of
marriage is not to be entered into
lightly, but thoughtfully and
seriously and with a deep
realization of its obligations and
responsibilities...


INT. BEN AND GEORGE’S APT - DAY

The party is going. PIANO MUSIC can be heard in the background. Honey walks around with a TRAY OF COOKIES.

HONEY
(with a deep Texas
accent)
Please, take one. I made them,

they’re delicious!


She goes around to the grand piano, where GUESTS are gathered around George, who is playing and singing BABY YOU GOT WHAT IT TAKES.

GEORGE
(singing)
Well now it takes more than a
robin to make the winter go
And it takes two lips for fire to
melt away the snow
Well it takes two hearts that are
cookin' to make a fie grow
And baby you've got what it takes.

Ben sits next to George, sharing the piano seat and the song - they sing very well together, very much in tune with each other. It’s a delight to see.

BEN
You know it takes alot of kissin'
to make a romance sweet

Oh it takes alot of lovin' to make my life complete
Oh well it takes somebedy special
to knock me off my feet

And baby you've got what it takes.

There’s laughter all around. George keeps on playing, and the two sing together.
 




(CONTINUED)
 
9.

CONTINUED:

GEORGE & BEN
I said ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh

Aha ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh

Because it takes alot of effort to stay away from you
And it takes more than a lifetime
to prove that I'll be true
But it takes somebody special to
make me say I do

And baby you've got what it takes

C'mon say that again honey

You've got what it takes [x5]


George jazzes it up on the piano for a grand finale - he’s a true musician. The guests applaud. The dogs bark. Kate starts clinking her glass.

KATE
Guys, guys. Quiet everyone. Quiet!

I just wanted to say something--

ROBERTO
(already tipsy)

Not now! Encore, guys, encore!

Ted discreetly pulls his shirt, trying to shush his partner.

ROBERTO
This better be good.

KATE
(in good spirits)

It is. It is.

Everybody has quieted down now.

KATE
When I met my husband Elliot

here...

ELLIOT
Is there another one?

Laughter.
 






(CONTINUED)
 
10.

CONTINUED: (2)

KATE
When I met Elliot, you all know my Elliot..., but when I met him, he was walking around with a camera, making these amazing videos with people he met on the streets, creating scenes out of the most ordinary situations - I’m sure you’ve all seen them. Anyway, I was trying to finish my first novel and I immediately thought we’d be such a great pair: two independent spirits, committed to our art, but alas, he wouldn’t pay any attention to me. He had no time for romance. Actually, he had no time to eat - he was always hungry, so I started to invite him over for left overs, which was actually food I had made specially for him... but he thought they were leftovers. One day he called and said he was starving, so I told him to come over, but this time I had no food - just a bottle of wine, and that’s when he finally started to pay attention to me.

Laughter. Zlata and Eugenia come from the kitchen.

GEORGE
Zlata, Eugenia, come here, get

your glasses.

KATE
We started to go out, and one day he said he wanted me to meet his Uncle Ben. I asked why, and Elliot said since his mother had passed away, his uncle was his favorite person in his family.

MINDY
Thank you, Elliot.

KATE
Not including siblings, Mindy.

Laughter.
 






(CONTINUED)
 
11.

CONTINUED: (3)

KATE
I said okay, let’s meet the uncle, but I kept postponing, ‘cause I didn’t want to meet anyone: I just wanted to spend time alone with Elliot. So finally we came here one night - you guys had just moved into this apartment, and I met Ben, and George, who had made a delicious spaghetti bolognese for us, and we drank wine and sang and drank some more - it was just wonderful. When we left, Elliot said: “I wanted you to meet them, because they’ve been together for more than 20 years...”. So I understood...

Kate gets emotional, tears up.

KATE
Oh my God, I’m gonna cry.

Everybody is quiet, listening. Mindy starts to cry again, but Kate swallows her tears. Elliot comes over and puts his arm around his wife.

KATE
I understood at that moment that
Elliot was proposing to me...
(to Ben and George,
raising her glass)
because you guys... Your love,
your dedication and your
commitment to each other are an
example to be followed. May this
marriage, may this love, last
forever and beyond. To Ben and

George!

Everybody raise their glasses and toast.

EVERYBODY
To Ben and George!

BEN
And to Petra!

EVERYBODY
To Petra!

ELLIOT
To Petra Von Kant!
 



(CONTINUED)
 
12.

CONTINUED: (4)

Ben and George, on the piano seat, look at each other and kiss. Some applaud, some whistle, a noisy crowd.

FADE OUT.


INT. ST. GRACE’S SCHOOL / AUDITORIUM - DAY

FATHER RAYMOND is sitting alone in the back of a large auditorium where a choir rehearsal is taking place. His eyes are closed, his head tilted down, as if in prayer. In the background, the voices of the chorus sing the powerful Miserere, by Allegri.

Up on stage, BOYS and GIRLS sing together, wearing their own casual clothes, under a modern sculpture of Christ on the cross. They sing in Latin; Tibi soli peccavi et malum, coram te fecci: ut justificeris in sermonibus tuis, et vincas cum judicaris (Having sinned against none other than You, having done what You regard as wrong, You are just when you pass sentence on me).

It’s a very democratic group: different ages, races and attitudes. Each face has a story, and together they give extraordinary power to the music.

In front of them, George conducts with passion for the music, moving his arms, mouthing some of the words that he knows by heart.

In the back of the auditorium, Father Raymond continues to pray, invisible to the people on stage.


INT. ST. GRACE’S SCHOOL / OFFICE - DAY

The small administrative office of Father Raymond. He is reading from a piece of paper, a computer in front of him.

FATHER RAYMOND
“All who serve in the Archdiocese
should: believe in God, support
belief in Jesus Christ, engage in
prayer, respect ecclesiastical
authority, possess a basic
knowledge of the Catholic Church,
not take a public position
contrary to the Catholic Church,
demonstrate a public life
consistent with the teachings of

the Catholic Church--

George is sitting across his desk. Both men look tense.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
13.

CONTINUED:

GEORGE
(interrupting)
Father. You’re not going to read
me the whole Witness Statement,

are you?

Father Raymond hands him the piece of paper.

FATHER RAYMOND
The Christian Witness Statement,
George. You signed it when you

took this job.

GEORGE
Father, how long have we known

each other?

FATHER RAYMOND
I wish I didn’t have to do this,

George.

GEORGE
Twelve years. Twelve years,

Father.

FATHER RAYMOND
You must understand that...

GEORGE
Understand what?

FATHER RAYMOND
That day when you announced you
were getting married, at the

spring semester meeting?

GEORGE
You’ve all known this whole time
that Ben and I have been living

together.

FATHER RAYMOND
Word got out to the Archdiocese.
And then someone showed the Bishop
pictures of you and Ben in Petra -

on Facebook, of all places.

GEORGE
I wouldn’t have done it any

differently, Father.

FATHER RAYMOND
I’m not saying you should have,
George. But the Bishop wasn’t

happy.

(CONTINUED)
 
14.

CONTINUED: (2)

GEORGE
What about the students? I’ve known them since they were kids. I know their parents. They’ve been to my house, and played on my piano. They’ve sung with Ben and me.

FATHER RAYMOND
George, you understand I signed
the same Witness Statement, right?
We all did it here. Believe me: I
wish I didn’t have to do this, but

it’s not a choice for me.

GEORGE
I need to talk to the students.

FATHER RAYMOND
Of course. I could go talk to them with you; or maybe you prefer to go on your own? It’s up to you.

GEORGE
What about regionals next month?

Father Raymond picks up a print out email from his desk, and reluctantly shows it to George.

FATHER RAYMOND
The decision is effective

immediately.

GEORGE
Oh.

George takes a moment to process what’s just happened.
Silence.

FATHER RAYMOND
Let’s pray, George.

George stands up, ready to leave.

FATHER RAYMOND (CONT’D)
It’s important that you don’t

question your faith.

GEORGE
Thank you, Father. I believe in
Jesus Christ as my savior, and
that won’t change. But at this

moment, I need to pray on my own.
 
15.


EXT. ST. GRACE’S SCHOOL - DAY

St. Grace’s Church and Catholic school in Manhattan.

The School and Church are located on a quiet street in Chelsea, lined with trees, off the main avenue. There’s barely any traffic. A small group of HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS in school uniform hang out outside, chatting and smoking cigarettes.

The door opens and out comes George, carrying a backpack and a heavy shopping bag.

He passes by the students without saying a word.

It’s hot outside. George walks down the street alone, sweating, passing the shopping bag from one hand to another. Busy New Yorkers pass by him, not noticing he has to stop for a moment, placing the heavy bag on the ground, cleaning the sweat off of his face. After a moment, he picks it up again, and continues on his way, disappearing down a busy avenue.


INT. BEN AND GEORGE’S APT - NIGHT

George is pacing nervously by the piano, holding a pen. He uses an old fashioned calculator that’s on top of the piano, as he scribbles something on a piece of paper.

GEORGE
Let’s not forget that the real
estate agent gets a first month
commission. The coop board gets
one month also, and charges a 5%

administration fee.

MINDY
A month?

Roberto, Ted, Honey, Mindy, Ben and Kate are sitting in the living room. Roberto and Ted are both in police uniforms. They drink soft drinks, water and beer for Roberto and Ted, but this time, it’s definitely not a party.

GEORGE
Yes.

MINDY
That’s ridiculous! Why do they
have to charge an administration

fee?
 



(CONTINUED)
 
16.

CONTINUED:

ROBERTO
They just want to discourage

rentals in the building.

MINDY
I hate coop’s.

HONEY
But it’s so hard to find a condo

in Manhattan.

TED
Nowadays it’s not.

GEORGE
Anyway, I’m just trying to explain that renting wouldn’t help us, because...

George is still finishing his calculations.

MINDY
You’ve been to my house, right?
You know how much my real estate
taxes are? 3000. That’s for the

whole year!

BEN
It’s Poughkeepsie, Mindy.

GEORGE
Renting would leave us owing about a thousand a month. If we can find a studio for 1,500 dollars, which isn’t easy, we’d start our month at almost 3,000. That’s including the Cobra insurance.

KATE
And you can’t afford that?

GEORGE
Well, between my private lessons

and Ben’s pension...

George is interrupted by a knock on the door.

MINDY
Why did you guys have to go on

such a fancy honeymoon?

Ben gets up and walks towards the door.
 




(CONTINUED)
 
17.

CONTINUED: (2)

BEN
Mindy!! That’s none of your

business.

MINDY
Of course it is. Otherwise I

wouldn’t be here.

ROBERTO
Shush, Mindy.

MINDY
I’m just saying... there’s nothing wrong with Provincetown.

Ben opens the door. It’s Elliot.

ELLIOT
Sorry I’m late.

GEORGE (O.S.)
Anyway, we’d still have to pay one
month’s rent to the agent and one
month to the coop board right
away. That’s 4,600 right there out

of our pockets.

BEN
Come in. We’re all in here.

Elliot seems surprised to see everybody there. He notices the serious mood.

ELLIOT
Everything okay, Uncle?

BEN
Yes, we just want to talk to you.

George stands to greet him.

GEORGE
Sit down. We just want to talk to
you all. We invited you all here
tonight, because you are our

family.

BEN
Do you want something to drink?

Elliot goes to sit next to Kate. She gives him a kiss.
 





(CONTINUED)
 
18.

CONTINUED: (3)

ELLIOT
Water, please. Are you going to
tell us you’re getting divorced

already?

ROBERTO
Ha! That’s what I thought also.

GEORGE
No. We have to sell the apartment. We’ve already found a buyer, so very soon we’ll have to move out.

Ben returns with water for Elliot. He and George sit together on the piano seat with their backs to the instrument. They face their guests.

GEORGE
It won’t take long for me to find another job, and for us to find an apartment. But in the meantime...

BEN
It’s just for this transition
phase. Probably just a week or

two.

GEORGE
We need a place to stay.

Elliot looks around at the Guests, and at Ben and George.
Nobody says anything.

ELLIOT
Wait a minute. Did I miss

something?

BEN
The last weeks have been tough on us, Elliot. Losing the job, looking for health insurance... We just need a breather.

GEORGE
Believe me, moving out is the last thing we want to do.

BEN
And it’s just temporary. We’ll

find a new place very soon.

ELLIOT
(angry)

Uncle Ben, how did we get here?
 
19.


INT. CORRIDOR OF BEN AND GEORGE’S APT - NIGHT

Outside Ben and George’s apartment, the guests say their goodbye’s to the hosts.

ELLIOT
I’m sorry if I was a bit rough,

Uncle. I’ve had a bad day.

KATE
Let’s go, Elliot.

TED
Think positive, Ben.

HONEY
I love you guys. I’ll call during

the week.

ROBERTO
Hey buddy, thanks for the beer.

MINDY
Good night, sweetheart.

BEN AND GEORGE (O.S.)
Good night. Good night.

The door shuts. The Guests walk down quietly towards the elevator for a moment. Roberto and Ted stop in front of another apartment, down the corridor.

ROBERTO
We’re here.

They start to say their good-byes, with hugs and kisses.

HONEY
I feel bad that I can’t help out,
but you guys have seen my

apartment.

MINDY
It’s okay. They can stay with me

for as long as it’s necessary.

HONEY
I just had this feeling that they
were hoping they’d stay with one
of us, here in the city. Didn’t
you guys see the look on their

faces?

Yes, they saw that look on their faces. All but Mindy.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
20.

CONTINUED:

MINDY
What are you talking about?

HONEY
I’m just saying... They don’t want to go live Upstate. George and Ben country boys, all of a sudden? I can’t see that.

MINDY
It’s temporary!

ELLIOT
Honey is right. Maybe there’s

something else we can do.

MINDY
I thought we had it all figured

out already!

HONEY
Shhh, Mindy. Quiet.

MINDY
Why are we even having this
conversation? I’m the only one

with the extra bedroom.

ELLIOT
It’s not that, Mindy. It’s

Poughkeepsie.

MINDY
When was the last time you were

there?

ELLIOT
Doesn’t matter. George has his private students here. Ben has his galleries.

ROBERTO
And they’ll need to look for a new apartment.

HONEY
It just doesn’t make sense that

they go live 2 1/2 hours away.

MINDY
It’s an hour and a half, actually.

TED
Not by bus, it’s not.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
21.

CONTINUED: (2)

MINDY
By car.

HONEY
They don’t drive!

MINDY
They can very well learn how to.

HONEY
Are you really serious, Mindy?!

MINDY
Shut the fuck up, Honey. You’re
not even family, so you don’t get

to decide anything!

They realize at this moment that they can’t let their friends go live with crazy Mindy.

TED
Pshhh... Quiet. They’re right

there.

KATE
Elliot, let’s go. I still need to

do some work tonight.

ROBERTO
Since we’re all here, why don’t

you come inside for a minute?

Roberto puts his key on the door, opens it. Kate holds Elliot’s hand, signaling that she wants to go.

KATE
(whispers)

It’s almost 10 o’clock.

ELLIOT
Honey, we need to figure this out.

ROBERTO
Come in, please.

TED
Come in.

Reluctantly, Kate follows her husband Elliot. They all go inside.
 
22.


INT. BEN AND GEORGE’S APT, KITCHEN - NIGHT

In the kitchen, Ben is washing the drinking glasses used by the guests. He washes thoroughly, slowly, taking this moment alone maybe to reflect, almost meditative.

George comes in quietly carrying two plates. He leaves the left over cheese on the counter and pours the left over crackers in the trash. He gives Ben a kiss on his cheek, then leaves.

After Ben finishes washing the last glass, he turns the water faucet off and proceeds to wrap the leftover cheese in plastic wrap, and then puts it inside a zip lock bag. He turns the water on again, and washes this last item - the plate that carried the cheese.

Ben turns the water off, finally, and looks around. All is clean.


INT. CORRIDOR OF BEN AND GEORGE’S APT - NIGHT (CONT.)

George leaves the door to his apartment ajar and walks down the corridor, carrying a full trash bag. As he passes by Roberto’s apartment, he seems to hear voices coming from inside. He continues down towards a door at the end of the corridor. He opens it and throws the bag down the chute. On his way back, he stops in front of Roberto’s apartment for a moment. He can’t make out what people are saying, but he can definitely hear voices: a woman’s voice, and then a man’s voice - an argument coming from inside the apartment. He knows it’s Kate, Elliot, Roberto. He feels sad that it’s come to this.

George goes back inside his apartment, and shuts the door behind him.

The empty, silent corridor with its cold light.

FADE OUT.


EXT. PARK SLOPE - DAY

A busy corner in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Old ethnic restaurants share the street with hip cafés. Young couples walk by with their kids, as an Older Indian couple open the doors to their store.

On the street, a couple of teenagers on skateboards rush by noisily, crossing the screen.
 
23.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, LIVING ROOM - DAY

The spacious living room of this Park Slope apartment is bright, with big windows that face a tree-lined street. The apartment is just high enough so that the leaves of the trees filter the sun, and cast shadows inside the apartment in this early fall afternoon.

ELLIOT (O.S.)
We have the crew, plus 4 actors and 25 extras, so you tell me how or where we are going to accommodate this crowd if we can’t close the street at 7.

Elliot is on the phone, sitting at a desk by the window, with papers scattered around: a budget sheet, a couple of actors’ 8 x 10, Polaroids of locations, a shot list.

ELLIOT
(...) You told me we had the

permit already!

Joey shows up at the desk.

JOEY
Dad. Dad. Can I talk to you for a

second?

ELLIOT
James, hold on.
(to Joey)

What’s going on, Joey?

JOEY
That geography presentation I have to do.

ELLIOT
Which one?

JOEY
The one on sustainable

development. I told you.

ELLIOT
Oh, that one. Yeah?

JOEY
Vlad and I are doing it together, as a team. They’re painting his house, so I told him to come here.
 




(CONTINUED)
 
24.

CONTINUED:

ELLIOT
(the phone calls his
attention)

No, no, no. It was from 7pm to 5am. That’s what I requested. Hold on a second.

JOEY
Do you need the living room all

afternoon?

ELLIOT
Joey, I’m sorry but this is urgent. Can you give me just a few minutes? I’m sorry, Son.
(back on the phone)

You know as well as I do that two hours will make all the difference, because if we have to wait till 9 to close the street...

Joey waits quietly for a moment next to his dad. But soon, the BUZZER rings.

Joey opens the entrance door, and VLAD, his buddy, is standing there. Vlad is 16, Russian, only one year older than Joey, but more developed, bigger. Whereas Joey still has boyish looks, Vlad already looks like the man he’ll be one day. He comes in, carrying a backpack, and a SKATEBOARD.

VLAD
I found the book on the Amazon
Rainforest. There’s some really
cool old pictures, with naked

natives and everything.

JOEY
Nice.

ELLIOT (O.S.)
...it means the crew won’t be ready until 11, or 12, do you understand? (...) No! That’s not a possibility.

VLAD
Your dad is home.

They both look at Elliot sitting by the desk in the living room, still busy on the phone.

JOEY
I know.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
25.

CONTINUED: (2)

VLAD
Let’s go to your room?

JOEY
Not yet.

VLAD
Okay. Can I get some water?

JOEY
Yeah.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Vlad enters, and sees Eugenia at the sink, doing dishes, pretty as ever.

VLAD
Hi there.

EUGENIA
(Surprised)
Oh hello. I’m sorry. I didn’t see

you there.

VLAD
I’m Vlad.

EUGENIA
My name is Eugenia.

Vlad’s staring. He makes her a little uncomfortable.

EUGENIA (CONT’D)
I work for Mr. And Mrs. Hull.

VLAD
Are you Russian?

EUGENIA
Yes.

Vlad reaches his han19d out. Eugenia dries her hands on the towel and they shake.

VLAD
(in Russian)

Very nice to meet you, Eugenia.

EUGENIA
(in Russian)

Nice to meet you too.
 
26.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, BEDROOM - DAY

Kate is sitting on her bed, with her laptop on a pillow.
The door is ajar, and Joey enters.

JOEY
Mom.

KATE
Yes?

JOEY
Vlad is here. We have to do our
presentation on Sustainable

Development today.

KATE
Oh wow. I can’t wait to see it.

JOEY
I think we’re going to the

library.

KATE
But isn’t Vlad here?

JOEY
I told you, yes.

KATE
So why don’t you guys just stay

here?


INT. JOEY’S BEDROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Joey’s bedroom is small, with a bunk bed and a small desk by the window with a computer. There’s a bookshelf full of books, photos and some quirky objects. On the wall a faux vintage poster of the Titanic (the boat, not the movie).

And there, propped up on the lower of the beds, with an open book lying on his chest, is Ben. He is shirtless, and wearing only his boxer shorts underwear. His eyes are closed, his head tilted to the side - he has fallen asleep, his reading glasses dangling from his nose.

The door opens, and Joey comes in, followed by Kate. Both take in the unexpected vision of the old man’s nearly naked body.

KATE
(whispering)

Wake him gently.

(CONTINUED)
 
27.

CONTINUED:

JOEY
You do it.

KATE
(impatient)

Oh, c’mon, Joey...

She moves gently towards the bed and gives Ben a tentative poke. He opens his heavy eye lids slowly.

KATE
Uncle Ben. Uncle Ben, hi. Sorry to wake you. Joey wants to ask you something.

JOEY
Mom!

Kate steps back and gently pushes Joey closer to Ben.

JOEY
Uncle Ben, my friend Vlad is here. We need to do a presentation for school, and there’s nowhere for us to study.

BEN
(dazed)

Who?

Vlad steps in from behind Joey, curious to finally see the old man in person.

BEN
Ah, Vlad, it’s so good to meet

you. I’ve heard a lot about you.

VLAD
Hi.

BEN
I’m sorry, I guess I’ve fallen

asleep.

He sits up, but still doesn’t move to get dressed.

BEN
What time is it?

VLAD
2:05.

BEN
So what is this presentation

about?

(CONTINUED)
 
28.

CONTINUED: (2)

Ben looks at Joey, who’s looking at his mother, who’s looking at him. Nobody says anything.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, LIVING ROOM - DAY

The desk in the living room now has been taken over by Kate, and her computer. Elliot is nowhere in sight. Only a few pages of notes neatly piled up next to the computer, while Kate seems concentrated, writing away.

BEN (O.S.)
Did I tell you that my gallerist

friend is a big fan of yours?

It takes Kate a moment to register that someone is talking to her.

On the other side of the room, Ben has created a make-shift studio, with an easel and a drawing pad. He has a few photos tacked to the wall beside him, and a box of charcoals that he is sketching with.

BEN (CONT’D)
Did I tell you?

KATE
A fan of mine?

BEN
She loves your book.

KATE
That’s nice.

Kate, after this brief exchange, is back to the computer, trying to finish that one sentence interrupted a moment ago.

Ben puts his charcoal back in its box.

BEN
I need some tea. Do you want some?

KATE
I’d love some, thanks.

Ben walks towards the kitchen.

BEN
You remember her, right?

Kate types the rest of the sentence before pausing again.
 



(CONTINUED)
 
29.

CONTINUED:

KATE
Who?

BEN
Ada. My gallerist friend.

Ben goes into the kitchen

KATE
When did I met her?

BEN (O.S.)
That group show I had? She’s the

owner of the gallery.

KATE
In the Lower East Side? Yes, I met her, I think.

BEN (O.S.)
Tall blonde.
(pause)

Swedish.

KATE
Yes, I met her.

BEN (O.S.)
She’s very nice.

KATE
And pretty.

BEN (O.S.)
Gorgeous, that’s the one. Last
week I stopped by the gallery and
she was reading your book. I

screamed. I absolutely screamed.

KATE
Oh yeah?


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, KITCHEN - DAY

Ben washes a couple of dirty dishes. He cleans the kitchen top with a paper towel. He opens the top cabinet, and takes his time selecting two mugs amongst the large selection.

BEN
She had no idea you were my niece.

KATE (O.S.)
That’s funny.

(CONTINUED)
 
30.

CONTINUED:

The kettle on the gas burner starts to steam. As the speed of the releasing steam increases, the vibrations become louder, whistle, and Ben turns the oven off.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, LIVING ROOM - DAY

Kate is concentrated on her writing, typing and drinking tea.

Ben is now sitting on the couch, blowing invisible steam from his cup, carefully taking tiny sips of tea, pensive.

BEN
You know my favorite story of yours? The one about the old high school friend who shows up at the diner.

Kate keeps on typing, trying to avoid another long interruption.

BEN
She sees him, but I don’t remember why she can’t be sure it’s her friend.

Kate doesn’t take the bait. She’s still typing.

BEN
The worst thing about getting old
is the memory.
(pause)
It only gets worse with time, let

me tell you.

Kate can’t let this go on much longer. She stops typing once again.

KATE
She can’t see him because he’s

outside and it’s snowing.

BEN
Of course! He’s in the car, right?

KATE
She’s not really sure if it’s him.

BEN
Because of the blizzard.
(pause)
And then there’s that awful hit

and run at the end.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
31.

CONTINUED:

KATE
Right.

BEN
That was shocking. I really lost
my breath at that part. How she
knows it’s him, her old friend,
even though she never really saw
him. So beautiful, Kate, really.
It’s such good writing.

Ben drinks some tea and it burns his tongue.

BEN
Ouch. It’s hot.

Kate downs her tea. She glances at the computer screen, unable to actually write anything.

BEN
Which is your favorite?

KATE
I don’t have a favorite.

BEN
That’s just like me with my paintings. I don’t have a favorite either. George does. He loves that one that hangs in our bedroom. Or used to hang in our bedroom. I gave that to him--

KATE
--on his 40th birthday, I know. I
love that one too...Maybe you can

start a new painting soon.

BEN
That’s the hardest thing, to be
honest with you, Kate. I brought

all my stuff, but...

KATE
What?

BEN
Well... It’s just that... I can’t
really work if there’s someone

else around. I can’t concentrate.
