The students arrange themselves on the steps, playfully at first, but gradually become solemn and organized, as the new CONDUCTOR seems ready to start the music.


INT. CORRIDOR OF BEN AND GEORGE’S APT - NIGHT

George walks the same corridor of his old apartment, towards Roberto’s door.

GEORGE (V.O., CONT’D) I believe the world is a better place if people aren't lying. In the words of the apostle Paul to the Corinthians: “Love does not delight in injustice, but rejoices with the truth.” Yours sincerely, George Garea.

The Chopin Prelude ends as George opens the door, and goes inside.

(CONTINUED)
 
65.

CONTINUED:




INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT / JOEY’S BEDROOM- NIGHT

The entrance door opens and Ben comes in. He notices that the living room is mostly dark and quiet, except for a reading light that was left on in a corner.

He heads to his/Joey’s bedroom. The door is closed.

Ben opens the door to the bedroom. He sees Vlad and Joey sitting next to each other on his bed, with some books on their laps, which they quickly hide however they can.

JOEY
(shouting)
Can I have some private time,

please?

Ben shuts the door. He realizes he’s arrived at a bad moment.

Back in the living room, Ben looks around and heads to the kitchen.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, KITCHEN - NIGHT

Ben opens the door and finds Elliot pouring some more red wine for Kate, seemingly having “a conversation.”

BEN
I’m sorry, I didn’t think...

ELLIOT
Come in.

Ben enters.

ELLIOT
Do you want some wine?

BEN
Why not.

KATE
How was your day?

Ben can feel the tension still in the air between them.

BEN
Nice. George went to church and I

saw a wonderful movie.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
66.

CONTINUED:

KATE
What did you see?

BEN
The Gang’s All Here.

ELLIOT
No way!

BEN
Do you remember?

ELLIOT
(sings)
But the thing that led to love,
was her polka dot gloves,
while the band played the polka

dot polka.

They laugh. It helps clear the air.

KATE
What is that?

BEN
A Busby Berkeley musical.

ELLIOT
It’s like an acid trip with Alice Faye and Carmen Miranda. The dancers hold these huge bananas...
(demonstrating)
...right here on their hips, like

they have huge penises.

BEN
Oh, not really. It’s not like

that.

ELLIOT
Yes it is. It’s totally phallic.

KATE
I know that scene!

BEN
They have a wonderful new print. And I have to say Elliot, I was so happy when they came out with VHS, we could watch all those old movies again, and I’m glad I showed them to you. But watching this in the big screen, it’s something else. It’s not even the same movie.

(CONTINUED)
 
67.

CONTINUED: (2)

ELLIOT
I’d love to see it!

KATE
Let’s go tomorrow night?

ELLIOT
Yes! No, shit. I can’t tomorrow.

Kate swallows her frustration with a big sip of her wine.

KATE
Well, maybe I’ll go on my own.

Ben sips his wine, looking at his nephew, and at Kate.

ELLIOT
(to Ben)

Is Joey asleep?

BEN
I think he and Vlad are still

studying.

KATE
Vlad??

ELLIOT
(to Kate)

What is Vlad doing here?

KATE
Not studying.

ELLIOT
I’m going to go check.

BEN
Don’t go.

ELLIOT
What?

BEN
Last year you two were complaining that Joey didn’t have any friends. You were worried he was too antisocial, you even took him to see a therapist.

KATE
So?

BEN
Now he has a friend.

(CONTINUED)
 
68.

CONTINUED: (3)

ELLIOT
It’s a little strange.

KATE
There’s nothing strange.

ELLIOT
It’s his only friend, and the

guy’s a lot older.

KATE
He’s 16, he just looks older.

ELLIOT
They’re like Yogi Bear and Boo-

Boo.

Ben laughs at that, but Kate doesn’t think it’s funny.

KATE
Don’t be ridiculous.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Elliot knocks on Joey’s bedroom door, and the door opens almost immediately. It’s Vlad, and he steps out, carrying his backpack and skateboard.

VLAD
Good night, Mr. Hull.

Elliot watches as Vlad walks to the main door, and leaves.


INT. JOEY’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ben is in bed, tucked under the sheets with a book, only his reading light on. After a moment, he believes he can hear a faint lament coming from above. He puts the book to rest on his chest.

BEN
Joey?

Joey is lying on his bed above.

JOEY
Huh?

BEN
Are you awake?
 



(CONTINUED)
 
69.

CONTINUED:

JOEY
Yes.

BEN
Can I ask you a question?

JOEY
What.

The fact that they’re not face to face, in the semi darkness, makes this easier to ask:

BEN
Have you ever been in love?

JOEY
I’m not gay!

BEN
I didn’t mean to imply that, Joey.

JOEY
So what do you mean?

BEN
Love. You know what love is.

Silence.

JOEY
There was this girl once.
(he proceeds
cautiously)
I was 14. We were on vacation in
Saint Croix. That’s in the Virgin
Islands.

BEN
I remember when you guys went

there.

JOEY
There was another family renting a house on the same beach as ours. They had a daughter, she was 16 and I used to watch her go windsurfing every morning.

BEN
Did you go windsurfing too?

JOEY
No, we had jet skis. But I used to watch her from the beach, and one day I saw her watching me too.

(CONTINUED)
 
70.

CONTINUED: (2)

BEN
On the jet skis?

JOEY
Yeah. I saw her looking at me.

BEN
Do you know her name?

A long pause. The silence is intimate between them.

JOEY
No. We never said hello to each

other.

BEN
Oh.

JOEY
But I think we’ll see each other again. They’re from New York City.

BEN
And if you do, would you say hello to her this time?

JOEY
I don’t know.

BEN
I think you should.

Ben turns his reading light off. All is quiet, the room is dark.


EXT. ROOFTOP ELLIOT AND KATE’S BDG - DAY

On a used palette, full of different colored spots, some green paint is mixed with a little brown. The result is a dark green, so the brush adds a little cream, and the mix become the perfect color for the Park Slope outdoors.

Ben sits on his portable stool, painting the canvas on his easel.

The painter starts to fill up the contours of his picture with green and blue.

It is a breezy, quiet afternoon.

The Skateboarder at the center of the painting seems to be done, and the trees, rooftops and sky around him start to gain life with brush strokes of color.
 
71.


EXT. ROOFTOP ELLIOT AND KATE’S BDG -- END OF DAY

The light has changed, it’s later in the day now. Ben applies subtle brush strokes to the canvas in front of him. With his finger, he rubs the fresh mix of green and brown on the painting, for effect. He takes a step back to look.

Ben looks at the sky. A wind blows, sending dead tree leaves flying through the air.


INT. STAIRWELL - END OF THE DAY

Ben opens the door from the roof to the stairwell loaded with his painting materials, carrying his canvas, a box and the easel all at once. The security door to the roof shuts and suddenly Ben can’t move. The bottom of the easel is stuck in the door.

He looks down to see the stairwell of the building looming underneath. He tries to pull the easel past the door, but it doesn’t move. Little drops of sweat start to show on his forehead.

He gives up trying to do everything at once, and places the canvas on the floor, then he kicks the door with his foot. He is now able to get the easel past the door, which closes with a loud clank.

He leaves the canvas behind, and carries the easel and the rest with him down the stairs.

It’s still a lot to carry, and the place is dark. He stops midway. A drop of sweat rolls down Ben’s forehead. He gets nervous, and takes a deep breath. His eyes get foggy, he has a hard time focusing them. The air gets rarer. Ben feels faint, and takes a deep breath. The stairs seem to move from under his feet.

First the easel drops, then the box, which opens and all the painting materials roll down the stairs.


INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

In the waiting room of the hospital, Roberto, in his policeman uniform, Kate and George are crowded around the DOCTOR, all ears on each word he says.

DOCTOR
The shoulder is a ball-and-socket
joint;

(MORE)
 

(CONTINUED)
 
72.

CONTINUED:
DOCTOR (CONT'D)
the ball of the upper arm bone
fits into the socket in the
shoulder blade, and is kept there
by the rotator cuff. He had what
we call a full thickness tear, or
a complete tear.

GEORGE
Can he paint?

DOCTOR
No. I don’t want him to even comb

his hair for a while.

GEORGE
Poor Ben.

KATE
His legs are okay?

DOCTOR
Legs are fine.

KATE
It was so hard to get him to stand up, and move. I thought he had broken his leg, he was in so much pain.

DOCTOR
He dislocated the shoulder, which
means his arm came out of the
socket, and that is very painful,
so any action, any movement with

the body, makes it even worse.

ROBERTO
What about surgery?

DOCTOR
I wouldn’t recommend it right
away. First he needs to rest.
We’re going to put his arm in a
sling, and he should just let it
rest for a couple of months. Then
we’ll try some strengthening
exercises and physical therapy.
Now, George, when was the last
time he had a full cardiac

checkup?

GEORGE
We have our regular checkup every

year.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
73.

CONTINUED: (2)

DOCTOR
You have to take him to see a

cardiologist.

GEORGE
Why?

DOCTOR
It’s not okay for anyone to be having fainting spells, especially not at his age.

ROBERTO
I thought he’d just fallen down

the stairs.

DOCTOR
No, he fainted.

GEORGE
He’s felt dizzy before.

DOCTOR
And shortness of breath?

GEORGE
Maybe. I think so. Did he complain to you, Kate?

KATE
No. Doctor, finish, please.

DOCTOR
A heart condition would explain the dizziness and the fainting spells, and nowadays heart surgery is so advanced... Anyway, I’m not going to speculate here. I’m an orthopedist, I’m not a cardiologist.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, LIVING ROOM - DAY

Ben, a large band-aid above his eye, his right arm on a sling, is propped up on the couch with two pillows, reading a book.

Kate comes from the kitchen with a glass of water, and some medication.

KATE
Here. You should take this now.
 



(CONTINUED)
 
74.

CONTINUED:

BEN
Oh, thank you.

KATE
I have to leave, but there’s a
plate of pasta for you in the

microwave.

BEN
Thank you, Kate.

KATE
Are you sure you’re going to be

okay?

BEN
Oh yes, I’m fine.

KATE
Okay, then.

Kate grabs her purse, makes sure she has everything she needs and walks to the door.

KATE
Bye bye now.

BEN
Bye.

The door closes behind her. Ben is alone in the apartment. With some difficulty, he moves on the couch to reach the medication and water. He drinks a couple of sips, and takes a deep breath before slowly returning to his previous position. He picks up the book and starts reading again.


EXT. STREETS OF BROOKLYN - DAY

Kate approaches a corner with a stop light. She waits for a couple of cars to rush by, but crosses the street right after, without waiting for the light to turn. She continues to walk fast, in a hurry to get somewhere on time.


EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Kate crosses the street in a hurry and rushes inside the gates of this private High School in Brooklyn - an old big building, a place that exudes tradition and solid education.
 
75.


INT. HIGH SCHOOL, THE PRINCIPAL’S OFFICE - DAY

A small room with books and files everywhere. Kate is sitting on the guest chair in the Principal’s office. The PRINCIPAL leans on her busy desk while talking to Kate.

PRINCIPAL
I don’t want you to worry too much, it’s not a very big deal. We deal with similar problems every day here. But it is serious.

KATE
I’m shocked. He’s such a serious
kid, and such a good student. And

so is Vlad.

PRINCIPAL
There’s been some rivalry between the two senior classes. It started between two students, but then it trickled down to everything from who’s the most popular to who’s the smartest. Maybe it’s something related to this, but I don’t really know. Did you notice anything different?

KATE
No. Maybe. Actually, now that I

know this...

PRINCIPAL
What?

KATE
Last night he watched a DVD with
me. It was my pick - a French
movie, and Joey usually would
never sit for the whole thing. He
seemed very interested and stayed
until the very end. We even had a
conversation about it after. That
was sort of unusual.

PRINCIPAL
Vlad has confessed that he took
the books out, and gave them to
Joey, but your son denies having

them.

KATE
Vlad seems to have great influence on my son. Joey doesn’t have that many friends.

(CONTINUED)
 
76.

CONTINUED:

PRINCIPAL
Have you noticed any new books in

the house?

KATE
I haven’t paid attention. I’m trying to finish my new book. And Elliot’s Uncle Ben is staying with us, sleeping in Joey’s room. It’s a bit of a complicated situation.

PRINCIPAL
Well, I don’t understand why they
would steal these books, they’re

all French literature books.

KATE
I have no idea.

PRINCIPAL
Truth of the matter is that the books need to be returned to the library. You can tell your son we won’t ask any questions now. But if they’re not returned, Joey will not be able to graduate. Do I make myself clear?


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, LIVING ROOM - END OF THE DAY

Ben, with his right arm in a sling, is lying on the couch, trying to read a book; it is a hard cover French edition of Cyrano de Bergerac. He doesn’t seem comfortable, can’t concentrate.

Ben puts the book down, and raises from the couch with some difficulty.

The sunset light comes through the window of the living room. Kate’s desk is empty, neatly clean. All is quiet.

Ben goes to Kate’s desk, and punches a number on the land line telephone.

BEN
George
(...)
After the operation, I think it’s
better if I go stay with Mindy.
(...)
Yes, George.
(...)
But it’s really not fair with
Elliot and Kate. And poor Joey.
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
 
77.

CONTINUED:
BEN (CONT'D)
(...)
You’ll come on the weekends.
(...)
We should have an answer from
those places soon.
(...)
Why not?
(...)
Of course I trust you. But I want

us to have options.

The door suddenly opens and Kate and Joey come in. Joey runs into his bedroom, without even saying hello, clearly upset. The door slams shut.

Ben, still on the phone, looks on as Kate goes inside her bedroom and shuts her door behind her.


INT. ELLIOT AND KATE’S APT, KITCHEN - NIGHT

A tense dinner at the Hull home tonight. The family is sitting around the table, their plates empty after dinner. Ben is the only one still eating. It’s only pasta, but having his right arm on a sling and trying to use the left hand only doesn’t help.

ELLIOT
This is the last thing I expected from you, Joey. The last thing. You’re not a boy anymore, you’re a man. You’re lucky this happened in high school, so the principal can call your mother. In the real world, you would’ve gone to jail.

JOEY
But I didn’t steal anything.

A cell phone rings. It’s Elliot’s, and he picks it up.

ELLIOT
(on the cell)

Hello.

KATE
Ben, some more water?

BEN
Yes, please.

Kate serves Ben water, then herself. For a long moment, there’s silence at dinner. Ben is slowly eating his food, Joey plays with his fork, and Kate is observing Elliot, who listens to the caller on the other end of the line.

(CONTINUED)
 
78.

CONTINUED:

ELLIOT
(on the cell)

No, let’s just go with what we have. I don’t want to make changes at this point.

Still more silence.

KATE
(to Elliot)

Can you do this later, please?

ELLIOT
(on the cell)

I can’t really talk right now, let me call you back in half an hour.

KATE
Thank you.

Elliot hangs up his cell phone, and is lost for a moment.

ELLIOT
Where was I?

Ben looks around, mouth full of pasta - nobody but him seems to remember. He chews and swallows.

BEN
Jail.

ELLIOT
Yes. You have a father and a mother who taught you all that is right and wrong. There’s no excuse for this. Look at your mom. Look at her! Do you think your mother deserves to be called in the middle of the day to hear that her son is involved in some kind of robbery? I mean, what’s going to be next, carjacking?

Joey doesn’t answer. He’s done with dinner, he’s ready to get up. But Uncle Ben’s plate is still full of pasta.

ELLIOT
Do you have anything else to tell

me?

JOEY
What do you mean?
 




(CONTINUED)
 
79.

CONTINUED: (2)

ELLIOT
If there’s something else, I’d
rather hear it from you now, than
later from the principal or

someone else.

JOEY
I don’t know what you’re talking

about.

ELLIOT
When guys your age steal things,

there’s usually drugs involved.

JOEY
No!

ELLIOT
Is Vlad involved with drugs?

JOEY
Dad... no.

KATE
How are you feeling, Ben?

BEN
Oh, I’m fine. It’s a bit
challenging to maneuver the

silverware, but I’m fine.

ELLIOT
(to Joey)

You don’t sound very sure. Is he?

JOEY
Not that I know of.

ELLIOT
Not that you know of?? You’re together all the time! The only way I can understand why a boy like Vlad would steal a bunch of books in the French language is if he were high.

JOEY
I’m done here, can I get up

please?

KATE
(to Joey)

You don’t want any dessert?
 



(CONTINUED)
 
80.

CONTINUED: (3)

JOEY
I’m full.

ELLIOT
Answer me!

JOEY
I don’t know, Dad! I’m not Vlad!!

They all want this dinner to be over. Silence at the table.

JOEY
Can I go to my room, please? I

still have work to do.

ELLIOT
We haven’t finished eating.

Joey looks at Ben’s plate, the only one still eating. Ben becomes self-conscious.

BEN
It’s okay, I’m almost done. I’m

sorry...

KATE
(to Joey)

Okay then. You can go.

Joey gets up and leaves.

ELLIOT
Unbelievable.
(to Kate)

You’re too nice to him.

KATE
You don’t even know.

Kate gets up and starts cleaning the table, taking the dirty plates to the sink. Elliot follows, and looks for a clean container for the leftover pasta.

Ben stops eating, and puts his fork down.

BEN
I know where the books are.

Elliot is rinsing dirty dishes in the sink, while Kate is dumping bits and pieces in the garbage.

BEN
I said, I know where the books

are.

(CONTINUED)
 
81.

CONTINUED: (4)

Elliot and Kate stop what they’re doing, and turn to Ben, who looks down at his plate, not able to face them right now.

BEN
I’ve been in the house by myself,
unable to work, to paint or do
anything. I was looking for
something to read, and I found
these books under my bed, so I
picked one up.

KATE
Ben! Why didn’t you say something?

BEN
I didn’t think much of it. They

were just books.

ELLIOT
Are those the books?

BEN
The one I picked up was Cyrano de
Bergerac. My French is a little
rusty, but I got most of it. I

know the book so well...

KATE
Frankly, who cares, Ben?

ELLIOT
Those are the books.

KATE
(angry, to Ben)
You’ve been listening here the
whole time, you should’ve said

something!

ELLIOT
Calm down, Kate. He didn’t know.

KATE
You think I’m too nice to Joey?

ELLIOT
Oh please, Kate.

KATE
Well, let me tell you: you’re too
nice to your uncle, Elliot. And
it’s very easy being nice when
you’re not the one who’s around

all day.

(CONTINUED)
 
82.

CONTINUED: (5)

Kate drops the plates in the sink, and walks out. Elliot follows her.

Ben, alone at the table can hear them knocking on Joey’s bedroom door. He can hear the door opening and then a loud BANG - the door slams shut. Kate’s and Elliot’s loud voices, muffled. And Joey’s shouting, his voice full of teenage emotion.

The rest of the food remains untouched on Ben’s plate. He feels bad, and can’t really eat anymore. He can hear the door slam open, and everybody’s voices loud and clear now.

JOEY (O.S.)
Because we're the only ones who will ever learn French and read those books in this stupid school! Including the dumb ass teacher!

KATE (O.S.)
That is so arrogant.

ELLIOT (O.S.)
Not even! It’s just plain stupid.

Suddenly, Joey bursts in the kitchen, his face red with rage, his voice trembling with anger.

JOEY
What the fuck, Uncle Ben?!!

Elliot comes right after, and grabs Joey by the arm.

ELLIOT
Don’t talk like this to your

uncle.

JOEY
You guys talk like this all the

time!

ELLIOT
Say you’re sorry.

Joey is almost crying. Kate comes in, holding some books.

ELLIOT
Joey, you know you won’t graduate

unless these books are returned.

JOEY
I’m sorry.
 



(CONTINUED)
 
83.

CONTINUED: (6)

ELLIOT
The trip to Paris this summer?

Forget about it.


INT. ROBERTO AND TED’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A party at Roberto and Ted’s. The apartment is crowded with people - men and women, friends of the couple - chatting, drinking beer, laughing and being social.

George sits on the couch, alone, with a drink in his hand, observing the scene. He sees in the corner of the room TWO MEN having what seems to be a heated conversation, which quickly turns into an argument. Some people around them look on, and they realize that this is not the place nor the time to be having this conversation. They rest their case for a moment. One of them, IAN, attractive, early 30’s, goes into the kitchen. The other one, a MAN IN HIS 40s, is clearly upset. He suddenly turns around and walks out the door. George witnesses the whole scene from the couch.

Ian comes back from the kitchen with two beers, and walks around looking for his friend. He looks and looks but doesn’t find him. Disappointed, he ends up on the couch, next to George.

IAN
Would you like a beer?

George notices a countryman in Ian’s heavy British accent.

GEORGE
No, thank you.

IAN
I got an extra one for my friend,

and now I can’t find him.

GEORGE
I think he left.

Ian realizes George was witness to his scene with the guy. He places one of the beers on the coffee table in front of him, and keeps the other one, drinking a sip.

IAN
We had an argument.
(pause)

I’m Ian by the way.

GEORGE
George. I’m a friend of Roberto’s.

(CONTINUED)
 
84.

CONTINUED:

IAN
Who’s Roberto?

GEORGE
Well, I think this is his party.

IAN
Oh, right. I don’t know anybody

here.

GEORGE
That’s Ted over there. The cute

one. He’s Roberto’s boyfriend.

IAN
Yes, I met Ted. Not my type.

GEORGE
They’re both cops believe it or

not.

IAN
Really? Gay cops.

GEORGE
We call them the Police Women.

Ian laughs.

GEORGE (CONT’D)
Terrible, isn’t it?	But they are
actually both very nice. Roberto
is not here yet, he’s still at

work.

Pause. George has a sip of his drink. Ian looks on at the people coming and going for a moment.

GEORGE
Where are you from?

IAN
Chippenham, originally. Near

Bristol.

GEORGE
South London, myself, but moved to

New York when I was a teenager.

IAN
Did you come alone?

GEORGE
With my mother.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
85.

CONTINUED: (2)

IAN
I mean to this party tonight.

GEORGE
Ah. Yes.

IAN
Do you live in Chelsea also?

GEORGE
For the moment, yes.

IAN
I live in the Village. I was on my way to have dinner with my friend, and he said let’s stop by this party first. I said sure, and now he left, and... well, here I am.

GEORGE
You must be hungry.

IAN
What?

GEORGE
I said, you didn’t have dinner, so you must be hungry.

IAN
Starving. You?

GEORGE
Yes. Hungry as Rodolfo.

IAN
Rodolfo?

GEORGE
From La Boheme. The opera.
(pause)
Sorry, I don’t mean to be

pretentious.

IAN
Rodolfo the poet, of course. He’s
so hungry and poor that he burns

his own manuscript for fire.

GEORGE
That’s right.

Another pause. Ian looks at George, looking at the scene in front of him.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
86.

CONTINUED: (3)

IAN
Should we go eat?

GEORGE
Right now?

IAN
Why not. I don’t have to stay

here. Do you?

GEORGE
Well, I...

IAN
Sorry, you don’t even know me.
It’s just that I hate to eat

alone. Don’t you?

GEORGE
No, on the contrary. I’m never
bored with myself, whereas people

sometimes can drive me crazy.

Ian gives no response - does that mean George wants to be alone? He takes a sip of his beer, and George looks at him.

GEORGE
Don’t get me wrong. I love people. It’s crowds I have a problem with. I prefer to relate one on one, than to just stand there with a drink in your hand, and a smile on your face.

IAN
I know what you mean.
(pause)

Are you waiting for Roberto?

GEORGE
Not really. I don’t think Roberto

will miss me when he gets here.

IAN
Oh, you’re waiting for someone

else!

GEORGE
It’s not that romantic of a

situation.

IAN
So what are you waiting for?
 

(CONTINUED)
 
87.

CONTINUED: (4)

GEORGE
I’m waiting for the orchestra to play its last note, so the curtain can fall.

IAN
Are you high?

GEORGE
Hardly. Before I started talking

to you, I was about to doze off.

IAN
That’s not the best place to

sleep.

GEORGE
And yet, you’re sitting on my bed.

George looks at the people coming and going, as Ian looks at him. A moment of recognition in Ian’s face.

IAN
You’re homeless!

GEORGE
(laughing)

Yes, it’s a long story. It starts with me marrying my partner of 39 years and getting fired. We’re looking for a place we can afford, but I won’t bore you with details.

IAN
Well, I happen to have, right here in my pocket, the key to a rent controlled apartment on Morton Street in the West Village, soon to be vacated.

GEORGE
How come?

IAN
It’s a long story. Should we go

eat?

George, a bit reluctant, looks on to see that Ted is in the middle of a loud group, drinking and laughing. The party goes on, and they won’t miss him.

IAN
C’mon. I don’t feel like staying

here, and neither do you.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
88.

CONTINUED: (5)

Ian gets up and walks away.

Already close to the door, Ian stops and turns. He sees that George is coming after him.


INT. APT. IN THE WEST VILLAGE - NIGHT

A small but very comfortable, cozy living room of an old apartment in the West Village. The place feels well lived in, very quiet, functional, with personality. George looks around, and Ian picks up a few items that were out of place.

IAN
My uncle used to live here before me, so after he moved back to England, I got the lease from him. That was 20 years ago, and I’ve been very happy here. I love this place.

GEORGE
So why are you leaving?

IAN
Because of work. I got a job with
the Anthropology Museum in Mexico

City.

GEORGE
That’s an amazing place.

IAN
You’ve been there. So you know it
doesn’t get much better than that
for an archaeologist. Do you want

something to drink?

GEORGE
Just water.

While Ian goes away to get some water, George looks at the books and pictures on the shelves along the wall. Pictures of Ian in a Mayan city in Central America, in Paris, and Ian with the older guy seen at the party, in a romantic embrace on a beach.

Ian comes back with water, sees George looking at the picture.

GEORGE
That’s the guy.
 



(CONTINUED)
 
89.

CONTINUED:

IAN
Yes, John. We’ve been going out for about a year. I told him about Mexico tonight, and he wasn’t happy.

GEORGE
You’re a heartbreaker.

IAN
On the contrary. When I first met him, I was so in love, I didn’t want to leave his side. Unlike many gay men, I’ve never been afraid to show my feelings. So I think I scared him off a little. He never wanted to commit, really, and kept pushing me away. It’s no coincidence that I interviewed for this job in Mexico. Now he finds out that I’m leaving and he decides that I’m the man of his dreams? It’s so typical, and so disappointing, frankly.

George goes to the window, to see the view.

IAN
Do you know how much I pay here?

GEORGE
No idea.

IAN
I’m even embarrassed to say. Eleven hundred. They can’t raise the rent too much. It’s controlled by the city.

GEORGE
Bless this city.

Outside, the faint light of old lamp posts illuminate a large, beautiful internal patio - one of those old-fashioned buildings. A sense of peace fills George, and he smiles.


INT. CONCERT HALL - NIGHT

A SINGER sings in Latin a beautiful, solemn piece of music. He is accompanied by a PIANIST and a few OTHER MUSICIANS on this elegant stage.
 


(CONTINUED)
 
90.

CONTINUED:

The small theatre has an intimate feeling, the audience is composed of music lovers of all ages: MUSIC STUDENTS and OLD TIMERS mixed with NOVICES who came to listen to Durufle’s music for the first time.

Amongst them are Ben and George, dressed in jackets and ties - Ben with a bow tie, stylish even if his arm is in a sling (a dark blue sling that goes with his dark blue tie).

The music takes a romantic turn. Ben looks at George - he knows that’s his favorite part. George keeps his attention on the stage, but brings his hand down to George’s side, as they discreetly hold hands.


EXT. CONCERT HALL - NIGHT

A small crowd of serious CONCERTGOERS come out from the side door to the Concert Hall. Ben and George are amongst them.

They walk down the street, George is humming the music.

BEN
So what did you think?

GEORGE
Not bad, though she was milking it a little.

BEN
Did you think so?

GEORGE
With a piece as romantic as that

you don’t need to embellish.

BEN
I don’t know. I loved it. I kept thinking about him and his beloved Isabella.

GEORGE
That’s not true, though. That whole he-wrote-it-to-convince-her-parents-to-let-him-marry-her, that’s a myth, you know.

BEN
I’m not like you, though. I prefer a little embellishment.
 
91.


INT. JULIUS BAR - NIGHT

George and Ben are on stools at the bar. George tries to catch the BARTENDER’s attention, with no success. They are a little out of place among the mostly young and hip PATRONS.

More YOUNG PEOPLE start to arrive, chatting, flirting, moving around.

The Bartender comes to help Ben and George.

GEORGE
Finally.

BARTENDER
I’m sorry, I’m sorry. You guys
look very thirsty. What can I get

you?

GEORGE
Scotch on the rocks for me. Vodka
tonic with half a lime and no ice

for the gentleman here.

Ben smiles, George knows him well.

GIRLS flirt with GIRLS who dance with BOYS who flirt with BOYS.

The Bartender brings the two drinks.

GEORGE
How come it’s so busy here

tonight?

BARTENDER
Thank God it’s Friday!

GEORGE
(to Ben)

The kids have taken over our spot.

BEN
Good for them.

BARTENDER
Are you guys new in the

neighborhood?
 







(CONTINUED)
 
92.

CONTINUED:

BEN
Are you kidding? There was a
famous “sip in” that happened
right here, in this bar, to
challenge the New York State
regulation that prohibited bars
from serving homosexuals.

BARTENDER
Sure, we have a clipping from The
New York Times framed here

somewhere.

Ben points the finger to himself.

BEN
1966. Me and four other guys. We came here accompanied by five reporters, and when we were denied service, we denounced the State Liquor Authority.

BARTENDER
Oh my God! You’re the guy?

BEN
I’m one of the guys.

BARTENDER
Wow. This round is on me, fellows.

The Bartender goes to help other Patrons. George and Ben pick up their drinks, and turn their backs to the bar. They try to hold it in, but soon start to laugh.

GEORGE
You’re such a liar!

BEN
What?!

GEORGE
You’ll do anything for a free

drink!

BEN
But I knew the guy who did the sip-in.

GEORGE
Frank?

BEN
That was his claim to fame.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
93.

CONTINUED: (2)

GEORGE
(raising his
eyebrows)
I thought his claim to fame was

something else.

BEN
Oh, that too. God bless him.

George raises his glass.

BEN
Here’s in memory of Frank.

They toast and drink up.

BEN
And to Ivan.

GEORGE
And who is that?

BEN
The angel from Chippenham who got

us the apartment.

GEORGE
It’s Ian.

BEN
Ivan, Ian, doesn’t matter. I’ll
drink to him, the handsome

stranger.

GEORGE
Do I hear some jealousy in your

voice?

BEN
I have wondered what you’ve been
doing with all your free nights

without me.

GEORGE
That’s not for me, Ben. You know

that.

BEN
For all these years?

GEORGE
For all these years.
 




(CONTINUED)
 
94.

CONTINUED: (3)

BEN
Amazing. I’m sorry I can’t say the same to you, George. But at least I’ve always been honest.

GEORGE
Sometimes I think that ignorance

would have been a lot easier.

BEN
I’m sorry, George.

George takes a long sip, observing the young people around them.

GEORGE
(softening)
But now that I think about it,
some things you couldn’t have

hidden even if you wanted to.

BEN
What are you talking about?

GEORGE
I’m talking about the time you got crabs.

BEN
Oh, thanks for reminding me.

GEORGE
And a black eye, that night in

Rio.

BEN
That was a crazy motherfucker

trying to rob me!

They laugh. George raises his glass.

GEORGE
To all the strangers!

BEN
Particularly the ones that bring
us a rent controlled apartment in

the Village. Cheers.

A toast, and the party goes on.

The CROWD drink and flirt, swaying to the beat of the music, a happy bunch.
 
95.


EXT. WEST VILLAGE - NIGHT

Ben and George walk silently side by side on the quiet streets of the West Village at night.

As they’re about to cross the street, Ben stops for a moment, taking a deep breath. George notices it, and holds his arm.

GEORGE
Are you okay?

BEN
Felt a little dizzy.

GEORGE
Too much to drink.

BEN
Yes. I’m fine now.

George lets go of Ben’s arm, and they cross the street.

Side by side, they walk on a side street towards 6th Ave.

BEN
George.

GEORGE
What?

BEN
Remember we used to go to Castelli and Mary Boone, and you’d say that one day we’d go there to see my one man show?

GEORGE
And we will.

BEN
No, we won’t, George.

GEORGE
How do you know? Nowadays you read about a new “hot artist” every week.

BEN
Okay, maybe it will happen but not in my lifetime.

GEORGE
How do you know? It’s all a matter of taste, and trends.
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
 
96.

CONTINUED:
GEORGE (CONT'D)

Some new curator might look at one of your paintings one day and think it’s the greatest thing.

BEN
I just would like to know. Is that disappointing to you?

GEORGE
Not at all. I say it because I
believe it’s a real possibility,
but it’s not important to me. I
love your paintings, and I don’t
really care what other people
think.

BEN
I guess I did make a couple of

good ones, didn’t I?

They arrive at the Subway Station by the Waverly Diner on 6th Avenue.

BEN (CONT’D)
We’ve had our ups and downs,
George, and I know I wasn’t always

the best husband to you.

GEORGE
I’d rather be your husband, Ben,
than anyone else’s in the world.
And if I had a chance to go back
in time, I would live the same
life all over again. I wouldn’t
change a thing.

George takes Ben’s hand, and they walk down the Subway Station.


INT. SUBWAY STATION / 6TH AVE - NIGHT

There’s minimal traffic this time of night inside the station. Even then, maybe out of habit, George and Ben find a dark, private corner to say goodbye, next to an empty ticket booth.

It’s time for them to separate for the night. They reach out to embrace each other, made only slightly awkward by the sling on Ben’s arm.

BEN
Ouch.
 



(CONTINUED)
 
97.

CONTINUED:

GEORGE
Sorry.

BEN
Careful with my arm.

A YOUNG COUPLE walks by, without noticing them.

They walk towards the entrance to the trains. Ben passes though the turnstile with his card.

BEN
Good night George.

GEORGE
Night, Ben.

George watches as Ben waves and disappears down the platform.

FADE OUT.


EXT. STREETS OF WEST VILLAGE - DAY

George walks alone on the not so crowded streets of the West Village, crossing South on 7th Avenue.


EXT. STREETS OF WEST VILLAGE / COURTYARD BLDG. - DAY

George turns the corner into a very quiet, tree lined street in the Village.

He arrives at the old brick building, and goes through the gate.


EXT. COURTYARD BLDG. - DAY

The sun reflects on the freshly watered garden, which is nicely landscaped and well taken care of. The old building surrounding this central courtyard is low, only 5 stories high. The place is quiet, and has a sort of a monastic feeling.

As George crosses the yard towards the entrance to the left, he doesn’t notice a young man coming from the other side.

JOEY (O.S.)
Hey, George.

It is Joey, carrying a shopping bag and a skateboard.
 

(CONTINUED)
 
98.

CONTINUED:

GEORGE
Joey! I didn’t see you.

JOEY
I was waiting over there.

GEORGE
Let’s go up. I want you to see the new place.


INT. APT. IN THE WEST VILLAGE - DAY

The same apartment seen before, but now with George and Ben’s furniture spread around, their books and objects on the shelves, Ben’s painting on the wall, and George’s piano occupying center space in the room.

Joey is by the window, looking at the courtyard below.

GEORGE (O.S.)
Here.

George brings in two glasses of ice tea.

JOEY
This place is so nice.

GEORGE
I know, thank you. I got lucky.

JOEY
And really close to the river too.

The new park is awesome.

GEORGE
It’s changed so much. When I first moved to New York, that was a no man’s land. Look at it now.

Joey drinks his ice tea, as George goes to sit on the piano seat, with his own tea cup.

They remain in silence for a few moments, an awkward intimacy between them.

JOEY
George, I’m sorry I didn’t go to

the service.

GEORGE
The service?

JOEY
Uncle Ben’s service.

(CONTINUED)
 
99.

CONTINUED:

GEORGE
Oh, it’s okay. Funerals can be
strange. Especially for people

your age.

JOEY
I wanted to remember Uncle Ben like I remember him now. I’ve never even been to a funeral before, and I was afraid that if I’d gone to his, that would always be what I remembered when I thought about him.

GEORGE
That makes a lot of sense to me, Joey. I hope you didn’t come all the way here just because you felt guilty about it.

JOEY
No. Actually, I came because I

wanted to give you something.

Joey goes into the shopping bag he brought, and takes out a painting. It is The Skateboarder, the painting that Ben made of Vlad.

George walks closer to the window, where the light is brighter and he can see better the unfinished painting. As if holding a piece of Ben in his hands, his eyes tear up.

GEORGE
Wow, that’s very nice.

JOEY
I picked it up at the top of the stairs the day Uncle Ben had the accident on the roof. It was funny because everything fell down to the bottom of the stairs, including Uncle Ben, as you know, but the canvas was neatly placed on top, as if he had had the time to save it before coming down.

GEORGE
You know that’s very possible. His paintings meant everything to him. I think that when he realized he couldn’t use his arm after the operation, he gave up. The heart was just a consequence. Is that the view from your roof?

(CONTINUED)
 
100.

CONTINUED: (2)

JOEY
Yes, it’s South.

GEORGE
Is that you here?

JOEY
No.

GEORGE
I didn’t think so.

JOEY
That’s my friend Vlad. He’s a friend who used to come over a lot when Uncle Ben was living with us.

GEORGE
You sure you don’t want to keep

this? It’d be a nice memento.

JOEY
No, it’s his last painting, it’s unfinished. You can look at it and always imagine what he would’ve done with the colors here.

GEORGE
Nice. Very nice. Let me get a hammer, so you can help me hang it on the wall.


EXT. COURTYARD BLDG. - DAY

JOEY’S GIRLFRIEND sits on a bench in the middle of the courtyard, with a skateboard by her side, playing with her smart phone. She sees someone approaching, and gets up. Joey comes to greet her. He holds her hand, and they start to walk away, each holding their own skateboard.


INT. APT. IN THE WEST VILLAGE - DAY

George watches the young lovers from the window.

After a moment, he turns around and sees himself alone in the apartment. He walks to the Skateboarder painting, looks at it and tilts it a tiny bit, making sure it’s squared on the wall.


EXT. MORTON STREET - DAY

The quiet street is covered by an arc of trees.

(CONTINUED)
 
101.

CONTINUED:

Joey’s girlfriend drops her skateboard on the asphalt, jumps on board, and rolls towards the river. Joey comes surfing by, and catches up to her. They roll side by side, towards the setting sun.
