WADE
I'm Wade, that's spelled, W-A-D-E, I'm small but wiry, with piercing, steel-gray eyes, and a rough-hewn but handsome face, I'm from Colorado, my father's a mining engineer, don't you take notes?

Upham shakes his head.

UPHAM
Demolition, right?

WADE
Since I was nine years old. They got a lot of explosives around mines. Me and my little brother could get into any warehouse you ever saw. Damn, we had fun!

Jackson shrugs.

JACKSON
I'm Jackson. I'm from West Fork, Tennessee. My pappy's a preacher. Him and his two brothers got a ministry, The Blessed Church of the Wandering Gospel.

UPHAM
In West Fork?

JACKSON
In the back of a nineteen and
thirty-one stretch Hudson with a
big ole' trailer.

UPHAM
No kidding.

JACKSON
I don't make jokes about things of, or related to, the preaching of the Holy Gospel, including the ministerial calling of my family.

UPHAM
So they travel around from place
to place and preach?
 
42.


JACKSON
We got us a tent, forty-two feet
across, eighteen feet at center,

hundred-and-ten foldin' chairs. Circuit's eleven towns, covers all 'a Hasset County and most 'a Weller County. I expect that upon completion of my military service I will be joinin' said ministry.

UPHAM
What about the Captain?	Where's
he from?

They all shake their heads.	Miller's out of earshot.

JACKSON
You figure that out, you got
yourself one nice prize.

SARGE
Over three hundred bucks, last I
heard.

WADE
Company's got a pool, five bucks gets you in, whoever guesses where the Captain's from and what he did as a civilian gets it all.

JACKSON
The whole kit and caboodle.

UPHAM
But everybody's heard of him, he
won the Congressional Medal of
Honor, he saved a dozen men.

REIBEN
We know.

UPHAM
Somebody must know where he's
from, what he did for a living.

SARGE
Somebody probably does.

UPHAM
Why don't you just ask him?
 
43.


JACKSON
The Captain prefers not to discuss certain aspects of his life, in particular, everything up to and including his enlistment in the United States Army.

SARGE
I've been with him since Anzio. I'm closer to him that I am to my own brother but I don't even know what state he's from. Somewhere in the Northeast as near as I can figure. I don't even have a clue what he did for a living as civilian.

Reiben shakes his head.

REIBEN
No one's gonna win the money for the simple reason that the Captain never was a civilian. They assembled him at O.C.S. out of spare body parts from dead G.I.'s. I know this for a fact.

JACKSON
(defensively)
You got somethin' against the
Cap'n?

REIBEN
Hell, no.	I think he's the best
officer in the whole goddamned
army, bar none.

They all nod in assent, no argument there.

JACKSON
You got that right.

Miller walks on ahead, unaware of their conversation. Upham watches Miller, with even more curiosity.

EXT. HEDGEROW FIELD - DAY

Miller and his men walk along a hedgerow that parallels a country cow path. They're staying close to the cover of the brush. Miller walks tall now.
 
44.


JACKSON
Captain, my feet are most
uncomfortable.	If I'd 'a known we
was gonna have to walk all the way
to Ramelle, I never would 'a
volunteered for this here mission.

MILLER
You didn't volunteer, Jackson.

JACKSON
I most likely would have, sir, had
I been given the opportunity.

REIBEN
If we find Ryan and he's still alive, that son-of-a-bitch is gonna carry this goddamned B.A.R. back to the beach for me.

JACKSON
Army life is too danm easy, my feet have gone soft. Back home, we go out squirrel huntin', I walk forever and a day and then some, don't even raise a blister.

REIBEN
You know what a B.A.R. weighs?
Nineteen and a half pounds, not
counting ammo.

(re: ammo bandoleers) And you think these things are comfortable? They may look good but they weigh twelve pounds each, that's thirty-six pounds, right there.

WADE
So what?	I've got three satchel
charges, six gammon grenades, a
dozen-and-a-half pineapples, and
all my regular gear.	You don't
hear me complaining.

REIBEN
That's because, as I have pointed out on numerous occasions, you are a happy idiot.
 
45.


WADE
No, I just happen to take the
Captain's advice and look at the
bright side of things.

UPHAM
How do you do it?

WADE
It's easy, it runs in my family, take my grandfather, for example...

REIBEN
Oh, Christ, now we gotta listen to that grandfather thing again.

WADE
As I was saying, before I was so rudely interrupted, my grandfather got old, as grandfathers tend to do. He needed someone to take care of him. We move around all the time, going from one mine to another, so we had to put him in a home. Nice enough place but kind of depressing. But not for Granddad. He just convinced himself he was on a cruise ship, going to Tahiti, he had his own cabin, first class, with room service. It just so happened that the weather was always lousy, so he never bothered to go up on deck. Happiest guy you ever saw until the day he died.

UPHAM
You think he really believed it?

WADE
Who knows?	It worked.

REIBEN
Fine, you convince yourself you
got a pack full of feathers and
goddamned Private James Ryan can
carry my fucking gear.

WADE
Reiben, you can be very unpleasant to be around sometimes.
 
46.


REIBEN
You want unpleasant?	Just wait,
I can do much better than this.

WADE
Look at Upham, you don't hear him complaining.

Upham, feeling bold and a bit naughty, decides to give it a shot.

UPHAM
Well, as a matter of fact, I was
just thinking...

The men roll their eyes, expecting the worst.

UPHAM
(continuing)

That I'm so fucking tired of this goddamned walking, I'd pay a thousand dollars to see that bastard Ryan crawl on his belly over an acre of broken glass to hear my great-aunt Martha fart through a field-phone.

The men are stunned.

REIBEN
Jesus Christ, he's a natural!

MILLER
Upham, are you sure you've never
been in combat?

Upham wiggles with pride.

UPHAM
Positive, sir, I'm certain I'd
remember.

Miller eyes Upham respectfully and nods to the men.

MILLER
He's good.

They walk on.

JACKSON
Cap'n, my feet are most
uncomfortable.
 
47.


Miller smiles, situation normal.

EXT. ST. MERE - LATE AFTERNOON

A small town has been reduced to rubble and is still an active battlefield. HEAVY SMALL ARMS FIRE. GRENADE AND MORTAR EXPLOSIONS. MEDIUM ARTILLERY BEYOND. American soldiers crouch in doorways, FIRING at well-placed Germans.

Some French civilians dash across a street. A man and a couple of women, one carrying a child. They make it across and disappear into the remains of a building.

Miller runs up and flattens himself against a wall at a corner. Sarge and the other men follow in leap-frog, spread out down the block behind him.

Miller glances around the corner, taking a quick mental picture of a GATHERING OF G.I.'s crouching in the cover of an alley across the street and down the block. They are CAPTAIN HAMILL, about Miller's age, and HIS MEN.

As Miller ducks back behind the corner, A GERMAN BULLET SMASHES into the bricks where his head was an instant before.

Miller motions Jackson across first.

MILLER
Stay low.

Jackson gathers himself, takes off. GERMAN BULLETS BLAST, kicking up the cobblestone behind him. Jackson zig-zags and makes it to the cover of the far side.

JACKSON
Dang!	That was close!

Miller nods to Upham.

MILLER
Your turn.

Upham, scared shitless, doesn't move. Miller speaks to him very gently.

MILLER
(continuing)
Zig-zag, change your pace a couple
times, you'll be alright.

Upham's frozen.	He can barely breathe.	Miller sighs.
 
48.


MILLER
(continuing)
Okay, I'm going to draw fire for
you.
(sternly)
But if I do, you goddamned well
better go.

Upham nods.	Miller gathers himself, takes a deep breath.

CLOSE SHOT:	MILLER'S HAND quivers.

MILLER

Looks to Upham.

MILLER
Ready?

Upham nods, still terrified.

MILLER STEPS INTO THE OPEN

Stands motionless, presenting himself to the German snipers.

MILLER
Go.

Upham runs.

A GERMAN BULLET HITS THE BRICKS NEAR MILLER.

He doesn't budge. UPHAM TEARS ACROSS THE STREET very, very fast. REIBEN watches Upham run.

REIBEN
Hey, that guy can move.

A GERMAN BULLET WHIZZES PAST Miller's ear.

UPHAM gets to the far side.

MILLER DUCKS BACK around the corner. Reiben and Wade don't even react to what Miller has just done. Sarge is pissed. He shakes his head at Miller, like an irritated parent.

SARGE
(under his breath so
only Miller can hear)
Damn fool.
(beat)
Sir.
 
49.


REIBEN
Captain, he's fast!

MILLER
(glances at Sarge,
speaks to Reiben)
Glad of it.

UPHAM

On the other side of the street, crouches in a doorway with Jackson. Upham is a bit in shock, less from the nearness of the bullets than from what Miller just did for him.

MILLER

DASHES across the street.

GERMAN BULLETS TRAIL HIM, shattering the cobblestones, inches behind him. HE MAKES IT across. Calls back to Sarge.

MILLER
Bring 'em over.

UPHAM, tries to thank Miller.

UPHAM
Captain, I...

Miller ignores him, motions to Sarge, Reiben and Wade.

MILLER
One at a time.

MILLER

Ducks out of the doorway and crouch-runs down the block. He passes a:

BOMBED OUT BUILDING

Out of the line of fire. A dozen dead American soldiers lined up on the ground. The battered, bloody bodies, only partially covered by ponchos.

Some badly wounded G.I.'s are being treated next to the dead.
Blood puddles have spread out onto the sidewalk.

MILLER

Sees the dead and wounded, shows no reaction.	Runs to:
 
50.


AN ALLEY

Captain Hamill and his men are bunched there, out of the line of fire. He's sending off a squad to continue their door-to-door.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
Fundamentals, short runs, double
up at the corners, one man close,
one man wide.	Be careful.	Go.

The squad takes off. Captain Hamill sees Miller. The two captains glance at the bars on their shoulders, then speak familiarly.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
(continuing)
How was the road in?

MILLER
We had a jeep until a few hours ago, a nice one, it had a cute little flag with a couple of stars on it.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
Oh, what a shame.

One by one, Miller's men join them in the alley.

MILLER
We called in a strike on the
eighty-eights that took it out,
but it's the Kraut spotter that
counts, wherever the hell that
bastard is.

Captain Hamill points across a wide field toward a distant chateau that has a private chapel with a fifty-foot steeple.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
That's where your boy is.	We've
been trying to get him since this
morning.	He killed two of my men
trying to get close enough for a
shot.

Miller eyes the distant steeple.

MILLER
Jackson.
 
51.


Jackson steps up. Miller points to the steeple. Jackson knows what he's supposed to do. He puts down his M-1 and takes off the long, zippered, leather sheath, strapped to his back.

He spits a massive bullet of tobacco juice, then calmly and methodically unzips his leather case and pulls out a very unusual, long-barrel, rifle.

Miller and his men give him some room. Hamill and his men, along with Upham, watch curiously.

Jackson opens a two-foot tripod with a flick of his wrist, sits down and carefully attaches the rifle to it. Then he takes a scope from a narrow wooden box and mounts it. He adjusts the eye-piece and clicks in the bolt-action. Upham is fascinated.

UPHAM
What is that?

Jackson pulls back the bolt and loads a single, over-sized shell.

JACKSON
Thirty-ought-six, Norton long-
barrel with dual-groove, parallel
rifling, elevated three-glass
scope and a single-throw hammer.

UPHAM
The Army gave you that?

JACKSON
Yep.

UPHAM
You must be a hell a shot.

JACKSON
Not where I come from.

Jackson sights on a tree about a thousand yards away and FIRES. Evaluates. Calibrates the scope. He re-loads.

Jackson FIRES AGAIN. Evaluates. Perfect. He wipes the dirt and sweat from his forehead, puts his eye to the sight and waits, absolutely motionless.

UPHAM
That must be four thousand yards.
 
52.


JACKSON
(without taking his
eye from the scope)
Forty-two-hundred, I figure.

UPHAM
You take account of the wind?

Jackson doesn't dignify that with an answer but he looks back with an expression that clearly says, "What are you, some kind of fucking idiot?"

Reiben puts himself between Upham and Jackson.

REIBEN
(put-on Southern
accent)

Dang right, he take 'count of the wind, ain't ya'll ever heard a Kentucky windage?

Jackson keeps his eye to the scope and his finger on the trigger.

JACKSON
Reiben, how many time I got to
tell you, I'm from Tennessee.

REIBEN
They got squirrels there, too,
right?

Jackson FIRES. Waits. A tiny smile. He starts taking apart the rifle. A very impressed Captain Hamill barks to his radioman.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
Get a hold of Command, tell them
the St. Mere road is open.

The Radioman cranks up his radio. Captain Hamill turns to Miller.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
(continuing)
How far back is the rest of
division?

MILLER
Very far, they're not coming this way, they're going to take Caen first.
 
53.


CAPTAIN HAMILL
Goddamn it, I was afraid of that.
We're in a lot of trouble up here,
and it's gonna get worse before it
gets better.	How many men did you
bring?

MILLER
Five, but we not staying, we're on our way to Ramelle.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
Shit, are you the guys going up to find Private Ryan?

MILLER
Yeah, you know about that?

CAPTAIN HAMILL
Command radioed, wanted to know if he came in with the early wounded or dead.

Several of CAPTAIN HAMILL'S MEN, among them a GENTLE-FACED PRIVATE, prick up their ears at the mention of Private Ryan.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
(continuing)

We're supposed to tell you, they intercepted a German transmission after you left. The Krauts have two companies on their way to Ramelle to take back that bridge, they'll be there sometime late tomorrow.

MILLER
Wonderful.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
If Ryan's alive, you'd better get him the hell out of there before those Krauts show up.

MILLER
How do we get out of here?

CAPTAIN HAMILL
You don't, until tonight, we're hemmed in real tight. After dark you try to slip out to the east.
(more)
 
54.


CAPTAIN HAMILL (cont'd) If you tip-toe, stay off the main roads and roll a few sevens, you've got a fair chance of making it up to Ramelle by tomorrow night.

Miller processes the information. Captain Hamill shakes his head.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
(continuing)
Tough, huh?	Three brothers?

Miller shrugs.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
(continuing)
We sure as hell could use your
help here, but I understand what
you're doing?

MILLER
Yeah?

CAPTAIN HAMILL
Good luck.

MILLER
Thanks.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
I mean it.	Find him.	Get him
home.

Miller is a bit taken aback by Captain Hamill's forceful sincerity. Then he shakes it off and motions to his men.

MILLER
Let's find someplace to hole up.

Miller nods to Captain Hamill, then, as he moves to the head of the alley, Miller passes Upham.

UPHAM
Sir, I'm sorry about what
happened, I...

MILLER
(interrupting)
It was nothing.
 
55.


UPHAM
But you could have gotten killed
and I...

MILLER
(interrupting)
Like I said, it was nothing.
(to the men)
Don't bunch up.

He takes off, crouch-running back down the block.

Upham watches him go.

UPHAM
Did you see what he did, back
there?

He stepped right into the open, so I could get across.

JACKSON
Shit, that was no big deal.

WADE
They can't kill him.

SARGE
Like hell they can't.

REIBEN
Wade's right, it's some kind of scientific, magnetic thing, I can't explain it, but I've seen it.

WADE
We all have, he's got nine lives, or he's bulletproof, or some damn thing.

The men are equal parts joking and admiring. Sarge is neither.

SARGE
No one's bulletproof.	No one.
(beat)
C'mon, stay low.

Sarge takes off after Miller.
 
56.


EXT. ST. MERE CATHEDRAL - DUSK

Miller and his men are bivouacked in the middle of the ruins of a medieval church. Miller, settled into a comfortable spot in the debris, eating his K-rations, looks very relaxed. Reiben paces.

REIBEN
Captain, could you please explain the math of this mission to me?

MILLER
Sure, what do you want to know?

REIBEN
Well, sir, in purely arithmetic
terms, since when does six equal
one? What's the sense in risking
six guys to save one?

MILLER
Ours is not to reason why.

REIBEN
Huh?

MILLER
Never mind, don't worry, we'll
pick up this kid, high-tail it
back to division, everything'll
work out fine.

REIBEN
I'd much rather die in Caen than
Ramelle, sir.	It's a personal
thing.

MILLER
Reiben, there's a fairly good chance you're not going to die at all.

REIBEN
Easy for you to say, sir.
(beat)
Fucking James Ryan, I'd like to
wring his fucking neck.

SARGE
Jesus, Reiben, think of the poor
bastard's mother.
 
57.


REIBEN
Hey, I got a mother. Jackson, you got a mother?

JACKSON
Last I knew.

REIBEN
Wade, Sarge, Corporal Insect, all of us, hell, I'll bet even the Captain has a mother.

Miller smiles.	Reiben eyes him and reconsiders.

REIBEN
(continuing)
Well, maybe not the Captain, but
the rest of us have mothers.

MILLER
You have orders, too.

JACKSON
Sir, I have an opinion on this
matter.

MILLER
I'd love to hear it.

JACKSON
Seems to me, Cap'n, this mission
is a serious misallocation of
valuable military resources.

MILLER
Go on.

JACKSON
Well, sir, by my way a thinkin' I am a finely made instrument of warfare. What I mean by that is, if you was to put me with this here sniper rifle anywhere up to and includin' one mile from Adolf Hitler, with a clear line of sight, war's over.

Miller nods.
 
58.


MILLER
Reiben, I want you to listen closely to Jackson. This is the way to gripe. Jackson, continue.

JACKSON
Yes, sir. It seems to me, sir, that the entire resources of the United States Army oughta be dedicated to one thing and one thing only, and that is to put me and this here weapon on a rooftop, smack-dab in the middle of Berlin, Germany. Now I ain't one to question decisions made up on high, sir, but it seems to me that saving one Private, no matter how grievous the losses of his family, is a waste of my God-given talent.

MILLER
Wade?

WADE
Hell, I don't mind this mission, sir, as long as there's something up at Ramelle for...

REIBEN
(finishing Wade's
sentence)

...for you to blow up, yeah, yeah, we heard that.

UPHAM
Upham?

UPHAM
(continuing)
Pass.

MILLER
Sarge?

SARGE
I'm just here to keep a bunch of numb-nuts, including one certain, frequently suicidal, tempter-of-fate, from getting themselves killed.

Reiben eyes Miller.
 
59.


REIBEN
And what about you, Captain?

Miller looks at Reiben, shocked.

MILLER
Reiben, what's the matter with
you?	I don't gripe to you.	I'm
a Captain.	There's a chain of
command.	Griping goes one way,
up, only up, never down.	You
gripe to me, I gripe to my
superior officers.	Up, get it?
I don't gripe to you, I don't
gripe in front of you. How long
you been in the army?

REIBEN
I'm sorry, sir, I apologize.
(beat)

But if you weren't a Captain, or if I were a major, what would you say?

Miller considers his response.

MILLER
In that case, I would say this is an excellent mission, with an extremely valuable objective, worthy of my best efforts.

Reiben rolls his eyes. Miller plays it straight, with no obvious sarcasm.

MILLER
(continuing)

In addition, as I pointed out earlier, I have a fondness for cheese and I hope to have the opportunity to sample some of the Ramelle products, when we arrive there, to see if they live up to their excellent reputation. Moreover, I feel heartfelt sorrow for the mother of Private James Ryan and I'm more than willing to lay down my life, and the lives of my men, especially you, Reiben, to help relieve her suffering.

The men thoroughly enjoy the performance.
 
60.


REIBEN
Sir, if you were not a Captain, I would compliment you, now, for being an excellent liar.

MILLER
But I am a Captain. If I were not a Captain, I would thank you for the compliment and tell you that the ability to lie comes from being a top-notch poker player, which I am, having learned at the side of my mother who is, by popular acclaim, the best poker player in...

The men all learn forward expectantly, believing they're about to find out Miller's home town. Miller smiles.

MILLER
(continuing)
...my home town, which shall
remain un-named.

The men ease back, disappointed.

MILLER
(continuing)
Any further thoughts on the
subject?

REIBEN
Yes, sir, as a final note, I'd like to say, fuck our orders, fuck Ramelle, fuck the cheese capital of France and while we're at it, fuck Private James Ryan.

MILLER
I'll make a note of your
suggestions but I'll leave that
last one to you, especially if
he's already dead.

The men wince and laugh. Miller checks his watch and gets serious.

MILLER
(continuing)

We move out in two hours, try and get some sleep.
 
61.


The men know when to can it. Without another word, they all settle down into the debris, close their eyes and try to follow Miller's order. Upham looks around at these strange men, then, a simple, hard glare from Miller makes him follow suit.

Miller looks at his men, then pulls out his map case and his flashlight. He turns it on, in the dim glow of the light, he studies his maps while his men rest.

EXT. ST. MERE CATHEDRAL - NIGHT (LATER)

Dark. ARTILLERY RUMBLES IN THE DISTANCE. Reiben, Jackson, Wade and Upham sleep. Miller still sits in the glow of his flashlight, studying his maps. Sarge lies near him, awake, watching him. Sarge notices some unopened envelopes in Miller's map case and speaks quietly to him.

SARGE
You ever going to open those
letters?

Miller keeps his eyes on the maps.

MILLER
Maybe.

SARGE
It's not normal, not reading
letters from home.

MILLER
Since when have things been normal?

SARGE
You got me.	Afraid of bad news?

MILLER
Nope.

SARGE
Good news?

Miller looks at Sarge. A moment passes between the two of them, then miller takes refuge in the maps. Sarge looks at the men.

SARGE
(continuing)
You think they'll be alright?
 
62.


MILLER
They're fine. As long as they can gripe, they'll be alright.

SARGE
And what about you?

Miller considers the question, doesn't answer.

MILLER
They guys here aren't going to be able to hold out until battalion shows up.

SARGE
Nope.

MILLER
Command isn't going to let them
withdraw and the Germans sure as
hell aren't going to let them
surrender.

SARGE
Three for three.

MILLER
If we stayed, we could make a
difference.

SARGE
You're kidding yourself.

MILLER
You never know.

They sit in silence for a moment.

SARGE
I hope this boy Ryan is worth it.

MILLER
Now you're the one kidding
yourself.
(beat)
Hell of	a mission.

SARGE
Yup, hell of a mission.

Miller looks at his watch, rises and barks at the men.
 
63.


MILLER
Rise and shine, boys.	Let's go.

Grumbling, the men get up and start shouldering up their gear.

EXT. ST. MERE STREET - NIGHT

SMALL ARMS FIRE ECHOES through the village. DISTANT ARTILLERY BOOMS. Miller leads his men from the ruins of the cathedral toward the outskirts of town. They're just a small squad, but these six, heavily-armed men, in full battle gear, are very formidable-looking.

EXT. ST. MERE - OUTSKIRTS - NIGHT

Miller's men are getting ready to move out. Captain Hamill and a few of his men are there to see them off. Suddenly:

A FLASH OF LIGHT APPEARS ON THE HORIZON

Then REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHT. The sky is on fire. The AIR TREMBLES. A FAR OFF RUMBLING THUNDER ROLLS over the countryside like a tidal wave.

Then, THE OPPOSITE HORIZON LIGHTS UP AS WELL. IT'S A MASSIVE ARTILLERY BATTLE. The MAGNITUDE OF THE FURY is incredible, strange, other-worldly.

EVERY MAN THERE IS TRANSFIXED.

Frozen in place.	The lights play on their faces.

MILLER looks down and sees his hand quivering.

SARGE notices, says nothing.

MILLER stares at his hand, forcing it to stop.

Their eyes go back to the BLAZING SKY.

SARGE
(awe-struck)
Makes you feel small, doesn't it?

MILLER
It doesn't take this.

Upham's face shows more fear than awe.

UPHAM
I wasn't made for this.
 
64.


MILLER
(bitterly)
You think the rest of us were?

Upham recoils. Miller instantly regrets his words. He turns to Upham and sees that he's really scared. Miller get a hold of himself and speaks gently.

MILLER
(continuing)

Don't worry, Upham, God'll protect you, this shit's gonna keep him up all night, anyway.

Upham manages a slight smile. Miller watches the lights for a moment more, then he pretends to shrug it off.

MILLER
(continuing)

Let's go, this ain't what they pay us for.

Captain Hamill is next to snap himself out of it. He points the way.

CAPTAIN HAMILL
Along the wall, about thirty
yards, there's a gate, on the
other side, a drainage ditch, stay
low until you clear the second
field, then you'll hit the woods.

As Miller and his men shoulder their gear and prepare to move
out, on of Captain Hamill's men, the Gentle-Faced Private who
was so interested in the talk of Private Ryan, steps up with
a couple bandoleers of B.A.R. ammo.	He offers them to Reiben.

GENTLE-FACED PRIVATE
Here.

Reiben looks at the bandoleers and is about to give a smart-ass response, when a look at the Gentle-Faced Private's vulnerable expression stops the comment dead.

GENTLE-FACED PRIVATE
(continuing)

My older brother was killed at Guadalcanal...these might come in handy.

Reiben takes the ammo.
 
65.


REIBEN
(gently)
Just what I need.

Miller steps over, takes the bandoleers from Reiben and hands them back to the Gentle-Faced Private.

MILLER
Thanks, but you may need these
more than us, or Ryan.

Captain Hamill nods to the Gentle-Faced Private who takes the ammo back.

MILLER
(continuing)
Let's move out.

Miller and his men head off along the wall into the darkness, lit intermittently by the distant flashes. Captain Hamill and his beleaguered men, watch them go with dread and a strange bit of hope.

EXT. FRENCH COUNTRY SIDE - NIGHT

The FINAL RUMBLES of the DISTANT ARTILLERY fade away. The night is dark. The band of six Americans makes their way warily along a French cart path. Sarge eases up alongside Miller and speaks quietly to him. The others don't overhear.

SARGE
How long's your hand been shaking?

MILLER
A couple of weeks. It started in Portsmouth when they brought us down for loading.

SARGE
Is it getting worse?

MILLER
No. It comes and goes. It stops when I look at it.

SARGE
You may have to find yourself a new line of work, this one doesn't seem to agree with you anymore.

MILLER
I'll be alright.
 
66.


Sarge looks at Miller, closely, evaluating him, they walk on.

EXT. FRENCH CART PATH - NIGHT (LATER)

Farther along. The men are tired but alert. Jackson is at point. Miller behind him. The others at intervals. Sarge brings up the rear.

A SOUND. Jackson stops. No one speaks, they communicate only with hand signals.

JACKSON SIGNALS to Miller, ten, twenty, thirty men coming.

MILLER SIGNALS for the men to get off the path. They ease into the brush. An instant later, a PAIR WARY GERMAN INFANTRY MEN appear.

REIBEN grips his B.A.R. and looks to Miller for permission to open up. Miller shakes his head and signals, "let them go."

A moment later AN ENTIRE PLATOON OF GERMANS rounds the bend. Fifty men. Heavily armed. REIBEN breathes a sigh of relief and lowers his B.A.R.

THE GERMAN PLATOON passes, their boots no more than two feet from the faces of the hidden Americans. Upham is wide-eyed with fear. The others are stone-faced.

THE GERMANS PASS.

MILLER MOTIONS for his men to hold their positions.

UPHAM doesn't see the signal. He stands, breathing a sigh of relief, just as a GERMAN WHIP-TAIL SQUAD appears, trailing the platoon by thirty meters, protecting their rear.

UPHAM FREEZES. He's standing, barely in the shadows, nearly exposed. Shitting bricks.

Pissed, MILLER prepares to fire. The Whip-tail squad approaches.

Then, the GERMANS PASS, miraculously, not seeing Upham in the shadows. They walk on and disappear. Upham is weak-kneed, amazed that he's still alive.

MILLER shoots a devastating glare at him, then signals the rest of the men to follow him into the woods. Upham scurries after Miller, staying close on his heels.
 
67.


EXT. FIELD - NIGHT

The little band of Americans walks along the edge of a field, parallel to a cart path. Wary.

Miller notices Jackson and Wade drifting too close to each other. He SNAPS HIS FINGERS, getting their attention, and motions curtly for them to open it up a bit. They do so.

EXT. CROSSROADS - NIGHT

Dark. FAINT DISTANT ARTILLERY. Miller checks the map as Sarge shines a red flashlight on an array of directional signs. One of them reads: "Ramelle 16 Km."

Miller puts away the map. Checks the horizon. The first glow of dawn is visible.

MILLER
It'll be light, soon. Let's pick it up.

EXT. FRENCH COUNTRYSIDE - DAWN

First light. The SOUND OF DISTANT GUNS has been replaced by the CHIRPING OF BIRDS. The Americans are taking five.

Miller stands, a bit apart from the others, looking out at the view. It's lovely. Dew shimmers on the long grass. The war is far away.

Upham walks next to him. They look out at the view together without speaking for a moment.

MILLER
It looks like a Renoir.

UPHAM
Yes.	Do you know Sibelius' Fourth
Symphony, The Normandy?

MILLER
I've been humming it.

UPHAM
I heard.

MILLER
It seemed appropriate.

UPHAM
You know classical music?
 
68.


MILLER
Some.

UPHAM
Where are you from, Captain?

Miller smiles.

MILLER
What's the pool up to?

Upham smiles, caught.

UPHAM
Over three-hundred.

MILLER
I'll tell you what, if I'm still alive when it hits five-hundred, I'll let you know and we'll split the money.

UPHAM
If that's the way you feel, why
don't we wait until it's up to a
thousand.

MILLER
I don't expect to live that long.

Upham looks closely at Miller and sees that he means it.

UPHAM
Five hundred, then.

Miller takes a last look at the view and allows himself to feel an overwhelming wave of sadness. Then he turns himself back into a commander and barks at Upham.

MILLER
Let's go, Private.

Miller strides away. Upham watches him, trying to figure him out, then he simply follows him.

EXT. HEDGEROW LANE - DAWN

The seven Americans walk along a hedgerow lane, untouched by war. Spreading trees arch gently over the lane which is lined with hedgerows, thick, rooted masses, impenetrable, hundred of years old.
 
69.


Miller sees SMOKE AHEAD. He motions to the men. They advance.

EXT. FRENCH FARM - DAY

A burning house and barn. An old FRENCH FARMER kneels on the ground, weeping, next to this SLAUGHTERED FAMILY, two adult women, an adult male and a boy, no more than ten. His animals, a pair of cows and a draft horse and some pigs are dead as well, shot to pieces. A DEAD AMERICAN PARATROOPER lies sprawled in the dirt with empty shell casings around his body.

Miller and his men approach carefully. Miller motions to Upham who squats down next to the French Farmer and speaks gently to him in French.

The FARMER SPEAKS SOFTLY as if in a trance. Upham stands and translates.

UPHAM
Five nights ago, he found this paratrooper caught in a tree with a broken leg. The leg got infected. Last night he went to Ville Cholet to get a doctor. The doctor refused to come and when he got back, this is what he found. The Krauts must have shown up while he was gone.

MILLER
Did he see any sign of them?

Upham gently asks.	The FARMER ANSWERS.

UPHAM
No, but he heard firing, just
east, less that a kilometer.

MILLER
Thank him and tell him we're sorry about his loss.

Miller heads off without glancing back.	The men hesitate.
Sarge jerks his head for them to move out.	They do so.

Upham squats down and speaks softly to the Farmer, puts his hand on the man's shoulder, then rises and follows the others.
 
70.


EXT. HEDGEROW FIELD - DAY

A beautiful, hedgerow-lined field of tall grass. The last of the dew and morning mist is just burning off.

The six Americans walk carefully through the woods to the edge of the field.

Miller notices something. He silently signals stop, crouches and scans the field and the hedgerow on the far side.

Sarge and Jackson ease up next to him. Jackson points to some trees nearby, freshly shattered and pock-marked with bullets.

Wade calls quietly from a tangle of roots and brush.

WADE
Captain.

Staying low, they join Wade who has found:

TWO DEAD AMERICAN PARATROOPERS

A trail of blood and flattened grass leads from the field.

MILLER, SARGE AND JACKSON

Crawl to the edge of the field, scan the far hedgerow. The others crawl up behind them.

MILLER
Where?

JACKSON
In the shadow by those two trees.

MILLER
My guess, too.

UPHAM
What is it?

MILLER
A machine gun.

Miller eases back from the edge of the field into the cover of the brush. He stands and takes off his pack.

REIBEN
Sir, I've got an idea, let's go
around.
 
71.


MILLER
We can't leave it here.

JACKSON
We left them eighty-eights.

MILLER
They don't send planes to put out machine guns.
(beat)

Two flank runners with surpressing fire. I'm going right, whoever goes left has to be fast.

Upham steels himself and steps forward.

UPHAM
Sir, I ran the 220 in high school.

REIBEN
He's fast, Captain, I saw him.

Miller takes Upham's measure.	Wade laughs with a sneer.

WADE
How fast?

UPHAM
Twenty-four-five.

WADE
Shit, that's nothing, I ran twenty-two flat.

MILLER
Wade goes left.

Wade joins Miller in peeling off his extra gear. Upham is impressed.

UPHAM
Twenty-two flat?

Wade takes a grenade from Upham's chest strap.

WADE
I would have won the states if some bastard hadn't tripped me in the finals.

Miller points the others to their firing positions.
 
72.


MILLER
Sarge, Upham, here.	Jackson,
Reiben, ten yards, either side.

As they take their positions, Miller and Sarge speak quietly, out of earshot of the men.

SARGE
Rule of thumb, Captain, says you ought to detail this one, instead of going yourself.

Miller looks at the two dead paratroopers.

MILLER
Yeah?	What rule of thumb is that?

SARGE
How about I go right, sir?

MILLER
How about you take your position?

Sarge hesitates.

SARGE
How about...?

MILLER
(interrupting)
How about you shut up and take
your position?

Sarge nods.

SARGE
Yes, sir.

Sarge finds a spot. Miller joins Wade. Miller waits near Upham as the other men settle into their firing positions.

UPHAM
Good luck, Captain.

MILLER
Don't need it, I'm a cat, I've got five lives.

UPHAM
The men said, nine.
 
73.


MILLER
What do they know?
(beat)

I had nine, but I feel through the ice when I was seven, my brother pulled me out. Then I used one when a grenade landed in my foxhole in Sicily, it was a dud. I figure one on the beaches, one on the cliffs and two getting here.

UPHAM
That only leaves three.

MILLER
Plenty.

Miller sees that the men are in position.	He nods to Wade.

MILLER
(continuing)
Ready?

WADE
Yes, sir.

Miller and Wade take deep breaths.

MILLER
Now.

MILLER AND WADE TAKE OFF AT FULL RUNS.

Onto opposite sides of the field. Nothing happens for a moment. Then:

A HEAVY GERMAN MACHINE GUN OPENS UP.	MURDEROUSLY LOUD.

SHATTERING THE QUIET.

IN THE NEST

A squad of Germans, dug deep, BLASTING THE MACHINE GUN, a BIG SCHWARZLOSE 8MM, a stunningly powerful weapon. Four Germans in the nest, four more outlying riflemen.

MILLER

Takes the FIRST FIRE. He HITS THE DIRT. The BULLETS SCREAM just over him.

THE MACHINE GUN SWINGS TOWARD WADE
 
74.


MILLER JUMPS UP AND SPRINTS

WADE HITS THE DIRT

The BULLETS GRAZE the back of his helmet.

SARGE, REIBEN, JACKSON, UPHAM

Zero the machine gun. FIRE fast as they can. Their BULLETS THUD INEFFECTUALLY into the hedgerow.

THE MACHINE GUN SWINGS BACK TOWARD MILLER

WADE JUMPS UP AND SPRINTS

MILLER HITS THE DIRT

Bullets SMASH into the ground all around Miller.

SARGE

FIRES A LONG BURST from his Thompson.	No effect.	Pissed.
POPS THE CLIP.	SLAMS in another.	FIRES.

THE MACHINE GUN SWINGS FROM MILLER

He rises and runs.	Fast.	Almost to the far hedgerow.

WADE

Ten more yards. Too slow. A deadly row of BULLETS KICK UP DIRT toward him.

MILLER

Makes it to the far side. Scrambles up the roots. Dives through the brush.

WADE

On a slight rise.	Can't hit the dirt.	A line of bullets.
Desperately sprints.

WADE IS HIT.	HEAVY BULLETS RIP APART HIS BELLY.	He spins.
Goes down.

SARGE, UPHAM AND THE OTHERS are horrified.	FIRE at the nest.

MILLER

STRUGGLES through the hedgerow.	Stumbles onto the path.
Rolls to his feet, running.
 
75.


Swings his Thompson into firing position. Racing toward the nest.

SARGE AND THE OTHERS POUR FIRE at the nest.

MILLER

Tearing along the path. Sees a German rifleman. FIRES A BURST. CUTS HIM DOWN. Runs over the body without breaking stride.

SARGE STEPS INTO THE OPEN, INTENTIONALLY DRAWING THE GERMAN FIRE from Miller.

The GERMANS ZERO SARGE.	BULLETS THUD all around him.
Somehow he's not hit.

MILLER

TEARS THROUGH THE TREES. BLASTS his Thompson. CUTS DOWN two more German riflemen. Grabs a grenade. Pulls the pin.

THE NEST

The Germans see Miller coming.	Wheel from Sarge.	Too late.

MILLER

THROWS the grenade, VEERS and DIVES.

THE GRENADE EXPLODES.

The four Germans in the nest are KILLED. SARGE hollers to the others.

SARGE
HOLD YOUR FIRE!

MILLER

rolls to his feet. FIRE another BURST. KILLS the last of the German riflemen. Doesn't pause. RUNS onto the field.

SARGE AND THE OTHERS

See Miller running toward Wade. They instantly RACE onto the field.

WADE

Lies in the grass. Holding his belly. Astonished by the pain.
 
76.


ALL THE AMERICANS RUN

Converging on Wade. Miller points, and yells, without slowing down.

MILLER
REIBEN, UPHAM, PERIMETER!	COVER!

REIBEN AND UPHAM

Stop instantly.	Turn toward the perimeter of the field.

SARGE

Roots through his medical kit as he runs. Dropping and scattering inessentials behind him.

WADE

Wide-eyed.	Not even writhing.	Too much pain.

MILLER AND SARGE GET TO WADE

Throw themselves onto the ground next to him. They both tear out sulfa-packs. Sarge frantically fumbles. Ripping one open. Powder spills.

REIBEN AND UPHAM repeatedly glance back at Wade.

SARGE

Pulls Wade's hands from the wound.	Pours sulfa powder.

MILLER

About to pour his sulfa. Sees the wound. Stops. Knows it's fatal.

MILLER
Damn it!

Throws the sulfa aside.	Quickly pulls out a morphine pack.

SARGE

Fumbles with a second sulfa bag.

SARGE
Sulfa, more sulfa...
 
77.


WADE

Frozen in agony. Looks at Miller. Sees him preparing the morphine shot. They both know.

WADE
Yeah...morphine...make it a
double...huh...Captain...?

MILLER

SHOVES THE NEEDLE into Wade's neck. Thick vein. Pumps the morphine straight to Wade's brain. Motions impatiently to Sarge.

MILLER
More morphine, hurry up, come on, come on...

SARGE

Hesitates.	Then drops his sulfa.	Fumbles in his pack.
Finds the morphine.

MILLER

Snatches the morphine from Sarge. Quickly and efficiently prepares a second shot. He's done this before.

REIBEN

On guard, glancing back.	Pissed off.

REIBEN
Goddamn it...Goddamn it...Goddamn it...

UPHAM

Freaked out.	Trying to keep his eyes on the perimeter.
Can't.

JACKSON

Watching.

MILLER

Gives Wade the second shot.
 
78.


WADE

Feels the effects of the first shot. He sees Upham and manages a pained smile.

WADE LOCKS EYES WITH MILLER. Looking at him without blame, without forgiveness. Drifts with the morphine. Then:

WADE DIES

ALL ARE FROZEN IN PLACE

UPHAM begins to weep.

REIBEN furiously mutters:

REIBEN
Goddamn it...Goddamn it...Goddamn it...

MILLER

Is silent. Motionless. He gently closes Wade's eyes. His hand quivers slightly as he unclips one of Wades dogtags. He fumbles and drops it. Sarge notices.

Miller stares at his hand and steadies it before the men see.
He picks up the dogtag and pockets it.

Then Miller carefully re-packs the un-used morphine and sulfa, rises and picks up his Thompson.

Upham shakes his head.

UPHAM
That was no twenty-two flat.

Miller SLAMS A FRESH CLIP into his Thompson.

MILLER
He lied.	Let's move out.

Miller turns and walks away without looking back. The men hesitate, then slowly follow him.

EXT. FRENCH COUNTRY COW PATH - DAY

A narrow footpath, arched over by trees, almost a tunnel.
The five G.I.'s walk, spread out.
