EXT. CARGO SHIP – LATER

Close on the hull, we see the water UNSPLASHING at the bow and SUCKING UNDERNEATH the stern as the ship steams majestically backwards through the cold North Sea...


INT. SHIPPING CONTAINER – LATER

BANGING wakes the Protagonist – Neil is at a peephole.

NEIL

We’re on a truck. Shouldn’t be too long now.


INT. SHIPPING CONTAINER – LATER

Neil is awake. He looks over at the Protagonist, who is examining a LESION on his right arm...

NEIL

You in pain?

PROTAGONIST
Must’ve got nicked in Tallinn.
(rolls down sleeve)
I’ve been thinking... we’re their ancestors. If they destroy us, won’t that destroy them?

NEIL
Bringing us to the grandfather
paradox.

PROTAGONIST

The what?

NEIL

The classic thought experiment – if you went back in time and killed your own grandfather, how could you have been born to commit the act?

PROTAGONIST

What’s the answer?

NEIL

There is no answer, it’s a paradox. But in the future, those in power clearly believe that you can kick Grandpa down the stairs, gouge his eyes and slit his throat without consequence.

PROTAGONIST

Could they be right?
 
102.


NEIL

It doesn’t matter. They believe it, so they’re willing to destroy us. Can I go back to sleep?

PROTAGONIST

No. I thought of something else.

NEIL

Great.

PROTAGONIST

This reversing the flow of time... doesn’t us being here now mean it never happens? That we stop them?

NEIL
Optimistically, I’d say that’s
right.

PROTAGONIST

Pessimistically?

NEIL

In a parallel-worlds theory, we can’t know the relationship between consciousness and multiple realities. Does your head hurt yet?

PROTAGONIST

Yes.

NEIL

Try sleep.


INT. SAME – LATER

A final THUD, then STILLNESS. The Protagonist moves to the peephole, unplugs it and peers out:

The WRECKED PLANE, FLOODLIT, sitting outside the COLLAPSED WALL which has been sealed with STEEL FENCING.

PROTAGONIST

Shit. They didn’t take us inside.

NEIL

What do we do?

PROTAGONIST

We use the breach. The chaos right after impact. Get ready.

They both turn to look at the unconscious Kat.

PROTAGONIST (CONT'D)

Is she healed enough?
 
103.


NEIL

I don’t know. I’ve never done this before.


INT. SAME – NIGHT

The Protagonist is at the peephole – the ground is WET. CLEAN-UP CREWS and INVESTIGATORS swarm backwards over the scene. SIRENS start... Water FLOWS UP ONTO THE PLANE’S WINGS. FIRE CREWS ‘unpack’ their equipment around the wreck...

PROTAGONIST

Fire crew’s there...

The Protagonist WINCES as he pulls his arm into its sleeve...

PROTAGONIST (CONT'D) We get Kat through the breach, I take care of Sator’s man and secure the vault. Then you bring her in.

NEIL

How’s the arm?

PROTAGONIST

Not good.

The Protagonist spots a HOLE in the fabric of his black suit – directly over the lesion on his arm...

Neil straps a respirator to the gurney – puts the mask over Kat’s face, then puts another on himself. He gives Kat a sedative.

PROTAGONIST (CONT'D)
We move the second we hear the
engines.

Neil looks at Kat, unconscious on the gurney. He TIGHTENS the straps – throws a reflective blanket over her...

The SIRENS are DEAFENING – the Protagonist flexes his arm, clearly in a lot of pain. Neil spots BLOOD dripping from the Protagonist’s wrist –

NEIL
You’re bleeding. Let me take a look
–

SUDDENLY THEY HEAR THE BUILDING WHINE OF JET ENGINES. The Protagonist YANKS up the handle, THROWS OPEN THE DOOR –
 
104.


EXT. APRON, OSLO AIRPORT – CONTINUOUS

Onto PANDEMONIUM – FIRE CREWS BATTLE the blaze, chunks of metal on the ground IGNITE, SHUDDER and LEAP ONTO THE AIRFRAME... STREAMS of water RISE up onto the plane –

The Protagonist HURRIES BACKWARDS, PULLING THE GURNEY towards the plane, steering around debris that might suddenly –

A SHEET OF FLAMING METAL SPINS off the ground, shearing into them, KNOCKING the GURNEY – they duck, HOLDING ON TO THE GURNEY, the metal FLIES into the air, SLAMS into its hole on the side of the plane... the Protagonist spots a line under the fuselage, between flames, towards the breach...

PROTAGONIST

Come on!

Neil looks up as BLACK SMOKE GATHERS, FORMING A MASSIVE CLOUD OVER THE PLANE... a SHOCK WAVE starts to BUILD in the air around them – the Protagonist PULLS Kat and Neil under the fuselage as CURTAINS of FIRE start GATHERING around the wings, CENTRED on a HALF-DESTROYED JET ENGINE –

They pass through the hole in the wall LICKED AT BY FLAMES WHICH LEAVE FROST ON THEIR CLOTHES –

As they clear into the building, DEBRIS in front of them start SHAKING – they DUCK as the MASSIVE BUILD OF ENERGY CLIMAXES in a CACOPHONOUS REVERSE EXPLOSION as THE JET ENGINE REASSEMBLES – LOOSELY ATTACHED TO THE WING, THRUSTING –


INT./EXT. FREEPORT SHIPPING AREA – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist draws his gun – turns to Neil –

PROTAGONIST

I’m going in. Wait here.

The Protagonist turns, rushing up onto the loading dock –

The LOOSE JET ENGINE, under FULL THRUST, ATTACHED to the wing, SWINGS BACK AND FORTH, wreaking REVERSE HAVOC...

The Protagonist pauses, LISTENING – he can hear BACKWARDS VOICES on the other side of a ROLLER DOOR – the loose jet engine TURNS, BLASTING AIR at the Protagonist with its INVERTED THRUST – the Protagonist is SMASHED through the bottom of the roller door –
 
105.


INT. VAULT, FREEPORT – CONTINUOUS

INTO HIMSELF AND NEIL, DRESSED AS BUSINESSMEN AS IN THEIR EARLIER VISIT TO THE ROTAS VAULT – the Protagonist (wearing black clothes and gas mask) TACKLES the EARLIER PROTAGONIST (wearing business suit), the Earlier Protagonist THROWS the Protagonist onto the ground, getting his gun –

SHOUTING at him INCOMPREHENSIBLY – KICKING his INJURED ARM AGAIN AND AGAIN – the Protagonist SCREAMS... The Earlier Protagonist puts his GUN TO THE PROTAGONIST’S HEAD... EARLIER NEIL GRABS HIS ARM, RESTRAINING him...

The Protagonist and Earlier Protagonist STRUGGLE, ROLLING across the floor with the unique physics of forward action merged with backwards action...

They STRUGGLE through the BLUE DOOR of the Rotas vault. The Protagonist gets his gun – the Earlier Protagonist STABS him in the arm with his lockpick – ‘HEALING’ his wound – ENERGIZING him –

He FLIPS the Earlier Protagonist up against the glass, LIFTS his gun – SHOOTS past the Earlier Protagonist’s head, putting a BULLET HOLE through the glass –

Glancing at the OPEN TURNSTILE DOOR, the Protagonist FIRES again, forcing the Earlier Protagonist TOWARDS the door... he looks through the proving window – no one there...

PROTAGONIST

Come on, come on...

The Protagonist FIRES AGAIN AND AGAIN, forcing the Earlier Protagonist closer and closer to the open turnstile...

The Earlier Protagonist takes hold of the gun – the barrel coming around onto the Protagonist who instinctively EJECTS the magazine, REMOVES the SLIDE, tossing it aside, leaving the Earlier Protagonist with a useless STRIPPED AUTOMATIC –

Earlier Neil RACES backwards into the other half of the room

– Through the bullet-riddled glass the Protagonist sees HIMSELF (GAS MASK, BLACK CLOTHES) RUN BACKWARDS into the room
–

The Protagonist LEAPS INTO THE TURNSTILE – we FOLLOW the Protagonist through the machine – BURSTING OUT on the other side – straight into Earlier Neil, who now MOVES FORWARDS as the Protagonist PUSHES past –

As the confrontation on the other side of the glass plays out again, FORWARDS... the Protagonist RACES for the RED DOOR, Neil in PURSUIT –
 
106.


INT. VAULT CORRIDOR – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist runs, pursued by Earlier Neil, skidding around the corners of the vault corridor –

Earlier Neil gets a hand on the Protagonist’s GAS MASK and YANKS – it comes off in his hands... this time we see that Neil is looking at the UNMASKED PROTAGONIST. Neil, surprised, turns and BOLTS back the way he came – the Protagonist watches him go, then TURNS –


INT. VAULT CORRIDOR – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist races down the angled corridor –

The Protagonist SKIDS through the doorway leading out of the corridor and into the SMOKE-FILLED cargo area where he left...


INT. VAULT 2, FREEPORT – CONTINUOUS

Neil races up to the Earlier Protagonist, grab his arm –

NEIL

NO! Don’t kill him!


INT./EXT. FREEPORT SHIPPING AREA – CONTINUOUS

...Neil (respirator on) guarding Kat, STRAPPED to the gurney.

Behind them, the fire crew battle the blazing plane. Neil is already looking up at the Protagonist who POINTS right – The Protagonist DUCKS THROUGH the breach, into the chaos... Neil moves BACKWARDS towards the outside...


EXT. BREACH – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist RUNS THROUGH THE SMOKE AND FLAME, DODGING DEBRIS FALLING FROM THE PLANE... heading towards the EMERGENCY SERVICES...

The Protagonist CREEPS along the side of an AMBULANCE... the AMBULANCE DRIVER spots him in the mirror – the Protagonist DARTS in, HITTING the driver in the face –


INT. VAULT CORRIDOR – CONTINUOUS

Neil (moving FORWARDS) ducks back behind the corner as Earlier Protagonist (business suit) and Earlier Neil (business suit) walk backwards away from the Rotas vault.

Neil pushes Kat towards the broken roller door and pushes her inside...
 
107.


EXT. APRON, OSLO AIRPORT – MOMENTS LATER

The Protagonist SWERVES the ambulance, trying to get close to the breach – the Protagonist SPINS the ambulance around as close to the breach as possible. He JUMPS out – opens the back – PEERS into the smoke and water... waiting...

Neil EMERGES, pushing the gurney with Kat on –


INT./EXT. AMBULANCE – MOMENTS LATER

The Protagonist DRIVES, sirens blaring.

PROTAGONIST
You knew it was me coming out of
that vault. Why didn’t you say?

NEIL

That’s a lot of explaining when someone’s about to put a bullet in their own brain.

PROTAGONIST

But afterwards –

NEIL

With things the same, I knew you’d be okay. What’s happened happened. If I’d told you and you acted differently... who knows? The policy is to suppress.

PROTAGONIST

Whose policy?

Neil GRINS, offering his hand –

NEIL

Ours, my friend. We’re the people saving the world from what might have been...


INT./EXT. PARKED AMBULANCE – NIGHT

Neil and the Protagonist are in the back, checking on Kat...

whose eyes OPEN.

PROTAGONIST

Kat?

KAT

I’m here.

Neil checks the dressing on her wound –
 
108.


NEIL
Be quite a scar, but you’re okay.
We did it.

KAT

Did what? Andrei’s got the algorithm. You don’t know where he is –

Neil looks at the Protagonist –

NEIL

Or when.

PROTAGONIST

Get Priya here to Oslo.

NEIL

Why?

PROTAGONIST

If I don’t do something now, in two days she’ll tell me about the 241.

NEIL

Nothing can change that.

PROTAGONIST

We’ll see. Just get her here.


EXT. OSLO WAR MEMORIAL – DAY

The Protagonist makes his way through the crowd, following an elegantly dressed lady... Priya. He takes her by the arm, away from the crowd...

PROTAGONIST

Hello, Priya.

PRIYA

What’s going on? Where’s Neil?

PROTAGONIST
Nursing Katherine Barton. Who
almost died because of you.

PRIYA

What did I do?

PROTAGONIST
It’s what you’re going to do. In
two days you’re going to have me
dangle plutonium 241 in front of
the world’s most dangerous arms
dealer... I want to know why.
 
109.


PRIYA

You let him get hold of 241?

PROTAGONIST
No. I let him get hold of the
algorithm.

Priya looks at the Protagonist, surprised he knows the term.

PROTAGONIST (CONT'D)

Tell me about it, Priya.

PRIYA

It’s unique. The scientist who built it took her own life so she couldn’t be forced to make another.

PROTAGONIST

A scientist in the future?

PRIYA

Generations from now.

PROTAGONIST

Why did she have to kill herself?

PRIYA

You’re familiar with the Manhattan Project? As they approached the first atomic test, Oppenheimer became concerned the detonation might produce a chain reaction, engulfing the world.

PROTAGONIST
They went ahead anyway, and got
lucky.

PRIYA

Think of our scientist as her generation’s Oppenheimer – she devises a method for inverting the world, but becomes convinced that by destroying us, they destroy themselves.

PROTAGONIST

The grandfather paradox.

PRIYA

Unlike Oppenheimer, she rebels, splitting the algorithm into nine sections and hiding them the best place she can think of...

PROTAGONIST

The past. Here. Now.
 
110.


PRIYA

There are nine nuclear powers. Nine bombs. Nine sets of the most closely guarded materials in the history of the world. The best hiding places possible.

PROTAGONIST

Nuclear containment facilities.

PRIYA

Sator’s lifelong mission, financed and guided by the future, has been to find and reassemble the algorithm.

PROTAGONIST

Why did they choose him?

PRIYA

The necessary combination of greed and ambition. But mostly, he was in the right place at the right time.

PROTAGONIST

The collapse of the Soviet Union.

PRIYA
The most insecure moment in the
history of nuclear weapons.

PROTAGONIST

And there he was. How many of the sections does he have?

PRIYA

After the 241? All nine.

PROTAGONIST

Christ. And that’s why you’re going to do it differently this time.

PRIYA
To change things? So Katherine
won’t get hurt?

PROTAGONIST

So Sator won’t get the algorithm.

PRIYA
If that universe can exist, we
don’t live in it.

PROTAGONIST

Let’s try. You’re going to warn me.
 
111.


PRIYA

No. I’m not. Ignorance is our ammunition. If you’d known what the algorithm was, would you have let it fall into Sator’s hands?

PROTAGONIST
You want him to get the last
section?

PRIYA
It’s the only way he’ll bring
together the other eight.

PROTAGONIST
I was supposed to steal it, then
lose it?

PRIYA
(smiles)
Mission accomplished.

PROTAGONIST

You used me.

PRIYA
As you used Katherine. Standard
operating procedure. You’ve done
your part.

PROTAGONIST
My part? I’m the protagonist of
this operation –

PRIYA
You’re a protagonist.
(off look)
What? You thought you were the only person capable of saving the world?

PROTAGONIST

No. But I am. Because I haven’t told you where he’s assembling the algorithm, or when.

PRIYA

You’re about to.

PROTAGONIST

No, I’m not. So deal us in.

PRIYA

Why would you involve her again?

PROTAGONIST

She can get close to him.
 
112.


PRIYA

Does he still trust her?

PROTAGONIST

He thinks she’s dead. But he used to.

PRIYA
You have started looking at the
world in a new way.

PROTAGONIST

And now it’s your turn. Assuming she makes it out alive, whether or not you feel she knows too much...

PRIYA

I can’t.

PROTAGONIST

If you don’t have the authority, talk to whoever’s in charge of loose ends. I need your word that she and her son will be safe.

PRIYA
(frustrated)
What good is someone’s word in our line of business?

The Protagonist just looks at her. She NODS.

PRIYA (CONT'D)
They’ll be safe. There’s a rally
point offshore at Trondheim. Get
yourselves up there...


EXT. WIND FARM, NORWAY – DAY

Chinooks cross BACKWARDS through WHITE TURBINES. Service boats pull people off ladders. A large ICEBREAKER sits nearby –


EXT. ICEBREAKER, BARENTS SEA – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist, IN RESPIRATOR, does PULL-UPS on deck, the movement ‘shaking’ snow back up onto the pipe...

PRIYA (V.O.)

Ives has a team ready to invert.

CUT BACK TO THE PROTAGONIST IN OSLO –
 
113.


PROTAGONIST
You have a turnstile? The exact
technology we’re trying to
suppress?


EXT. ICEBREAKER – DAY

The Protagonist watches a CHINOOK long-line a container...

PRIYA (V.O.)
Fighting fire with fire is a
treacherous business, but there are
people in the future who need us to
continue the algorithm’s journey
into the past. You see...

Taking a look at the sea CHURNING BACKWARDS into the stern as the inverted ship ‘progresses’, he heads below deck...

CUT BACK TO PRIYA IN OSLO –

PRIYA
...Tenet wasn’t founded in the past
– it will be founded in the future.


INT. HOLD, ICEBREAKER – CONTINUOUS

Coming out of an AIRLOCK, he removes his respirator. Walks past Wheeler drilling TENET SOLDIERS – non-inverted soldiers in respirators SPAR with inverted soldiers. Neil is amongst troops practising ‘LIFTING’ weapons from the floor.


INT. CABIN, ICEBREAKER – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist enters. Kat sits at a window.

KAT

I can’t get over the birds...

The Protagonist follows her look to a bird flying backwards.

PROTAGONIST

How are you feeling?

She lifts her shirt to reveal a LARGE, JAGGED, ANGRY SCAR.

KAT

Tell me you’re going to kill him.

PROTAGONIST

I can’t.

Neil enters without interrupting. Kat rises. Steady.
 
114.


KAT
Why not? I think you’ve probably
killed a lot of people –

NEIL

Not with a dead man’s switch.

KAT

A what?

PROTAGONIST

That fitness tracker he wears...

KAT

He’s obsessive about his health.

NEIL

It’ll be linked to a switch. Probably a simple email burst, revealing the location of the dead drop, set to fire if his heart stops.

PROTAGONIST

In effect, his death activates the algorithm. He dies, the world ends
– no one dares kill him. Kat realizes...

KAT

No, you’ve missed the point. He’s intending to end his life.

PROTAGONIST

Why?

KAT

He’s dying. Inoperable pancreatic cancer.

PROTAGONIST

And he’s taking the world with him.

KAT

If he can’t have her, no one can.

PROTAGONIST

What?

KAT

Something he said, once. He has a child, for God’s sake.

NEIL

Kat, he gets to choose the time and place for the end of the world. What moment? What does he choose?
 
115.


PROTAGONIST

You told me about a holiday, where you let him feel loved...

KAT

Viet Nam. On our yacht. His yacht.

PROTAGONIST

You said he vanished – what day?

KAT
I went ashore with Max, he flew
off. I don’t know what date it
was...

NEIL

The 14th. Ten days ago. He was in Ukraine, stealing a section of the algorithm from an American team.

PROTAGONIST

At the Kiev Opera siege. How do you know about that?

NEIL
The point is – he wasn’t on the
yacht, so that’s his window.

KAT

To come back to that golden moment and have it be his last.

PROTAGONIST
Everyone’s last. We have to lift
the algorithm from the dead drop
without Sator knowing. If he
believes it’s in there, he kills
himself.

NEIL

And not the rest of us. Where’s the dead drop?

PROTAGONIST

Knowledge divided, friend.

NEIL

You’re not going to tell me?

PROTAGONIST
Ignorance is our ammunition.
(turns to her)
But I need you back on that boat.

KAT

Why?
 
116.


PROTAGONIST

You have to stop him killing himself until we know that algorithm is out of the dead drop.

KAT

But if I’m caught there... and my son sees... I don’t want those moments full of anguish if they’re going to be his last.

PROTAGONIST

They’re not.


INT. ICEBREAKER, BARENTS SEA – DAY

The Protagonist watches the troops prepare.

IVES (O.S.)

Cough it up. It’s time.

The Protagonist turns to face Ives.

IVES (CONT'D)

We’re working our way back to the 14th. But without knowing where the dead drop is, there’s only so much I can prepare.
(no response)
You need me to get you there.

PROTAGONIST

Know what a hypocentre is?

Ives shakes his head.

PROTAGONIST (CONT'D) Ground zero for an underground nuclear test. Sir Michael Crosby told me about a detonation at Stalsk-12 on the 14th – the dead drop is at the bottom of the hypocentre. That explosion seals up the algorithm.

IVES

Then we’d better pull it out of that hole before the bomb goes off.


INT. TURNSTILE, ICEBREAKER – DAY

Soldiers in respirators file into the turnstile. Through the proving window we see them ‘back’ into the exit... The Protagonist checks his gear at the back of the line. He sees Kat watching from the airlock. He goes to her.
 
117.


INT. AIRLOCK – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist pulls off his respirator.

KAT

Where’s Neil?

PROTAGONIST

He must’ve already gone through...

KAT

I didn’t get to say goodbye – this is goodbye, isn’t it?

PROTAGONIST
Today’s the 14th. Offshore of
Siberia – time for us to go. You
keep going back another day, give
you time to make it to Viet Nam.

KAT

Who gets me back on the yacht?

PROTAGONIST

I’ve got somebody good lined up. I’d like to say you don’t have to do this, but...

KAT

I once told you I didn’t need redemption. But the chance to save my child? You can’t know what that means to a mother.

PROTAGONIST

No.

KAT

The worst thing Andrei ever did to me was that offer – to let me go if I never saw my son again. I shouted, swore –

INSERT CUT: Kat FLINGS a crystal BOWL OF RASPBERRIES, SMASHING it on a wooden deck...

KAT (CONT'D)

But he’d seen it on my face – just for an instant.

Kat looks at the Protagonist. Who says nothing.

KAT (CONT'D)

I don’t know if I hate him more for the things he’s done, or because he knows that about me. You’ve killed people you hated before?
 
118.


PROTAGONIST

It’s not usually personal.

KAT
He’s dying, anyway. It might not
even count –

PROTAGONIST

It always counts. You’re not there to kill him – you’re the backstop. If we haven’t lifted that algorithm and he kills himself, he takes us all with him, instantly.

Kat moves to the Protagonist, in close –

KAT

Just keep up your end, okay?

The Protagonist nods. She kisses him.

PROTAGONIST

When it’s over, and you’re raising your boy. Carry this –

The Protagonist hands her a DUMB PHONE.

PROTAGONIST (CONT'D) There may be a time and place you feel threatened. Hit talk, state your location, hang up.

KAT

Who gets the message?

PROTAGONIST

Posterity.


INT./EXT. CHINOOK – LATER

The Protagonist watches the icebreaker recede...


EXT. VAST BARREN PLAIN, DUSTED WITH SNOW – DAY

Three CHINOOKS zoom low across the barren landscape, followed by another three CHINOOKS long-lining SHIPPING CONTAINERS...

INT. CHINOOK – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist sits amongst a DOZEN SOLDIERS. They watch the endless northern plain unroll beneath them...
 
119.


EXT. TENET CAMP – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist gets off the Chinook, watching another Chinook gently set down a container. He follows the others to a tent.


INT. BRIEFING TENT – CONTINUOUS

Soldiers in folding chairs facing a screen. The Protagonist looks around – still no Neil. Ives steps up, signals for the projector: a devastated CITY, grey CONCRETE and ABANDONED industry amongst terraced strip mines...

IVES

Stalsk-12. Hidden from the world. A city where anything can happen, and today, gentlemen, for ten minutes, it most assuredly does.

Ives switches to a GRAPHIC: a childishly simple diagram of a LANDING AREA, BUILDINGS, then an UNDERGROUND CAVERN...

IVES (CONT'D)

You were divided into two teams for a temporal pincer movement. We are Red team, moving forwards. Our friends out there –
(gestures at containers)
– Blue team, led by Commander Wheeler, are inverted. One hour from now, they had this briefing...

INSERT CUT: Neil, in RESPIRATOR, in the front row of Commander Wheeler’s briefing of BLUE TEAM. All are in respirators...

BACK TO RED-TEAM BRIEFING –

IVES (CONT'D)

Then were dropped on the ridge above the hypocentre as close in time to the detonation as possible. Their objectives were clearance and clarification. This briefing has the benefit of their experience – and yes, some of you specialists are on both teams.

The Protagonist overhears –

RED SOLDIER 1

Why don’t they let us see them?

RED SOLDIER 2

Maybe we won’t like what happened.
 
120.


EXT. COAST OF VIET NAM – DAY

A SPEEDBOAT bounces through the chop, Mahir (from the freeport heist) at the helm. Kat, beside him, shields her eyes from the glare as they head towards Sator’s yacht. They pull up some way off. A chopper sits on the yacht.

Mahir hands Kat binoculars – Kat watches her EARLIER SELF and HER SON board the tender and head for shore...

INT. BRIEFING TENT – DAY

Ives gestures across the whole area on the schematic –

IVES

The entire area is radioactive, so both teams wear full protection. To distinguish teams, wear these –

A soldier starts passing out RED ARMBANDS...

INSERT CUT: Neil, in respirator, takes a BLUE ARMBAND, and, like the rest of the team, puts it on...

BACK TO RED-TEAM BRIEFING –

Ives points to each of the three elements in turn:

IVES (CONT'D)

Landing zone, LZ, well defended, including ground-to-air ordinance. We drop in, clear the LZ for Blue team’s evacuation... We make our way into the city proper... these buildings are abandoned, but we learned they have a turnstile in this one... so expect a bi-temporal response.

RED SOLDIER 1

They’ll have inverse ordinance?

IVES

Inverse, conventional, forwards antagonists, inverted antagonists – they have it all, and it can all end you. Got it?

Ives goes back to the diagram –

IVES (CONT'D)

On the other side of the city, the ground rises to the ridge above the hypocentre.
(MORE)
 
121.

IVES (CONT'D)

Most of you will proceed up the hill – a splinter unit will take a tunnel from the city to the floor of the hypocentre. Blue team located an entrance here –

Ives points to the city’s edge. Then to the CAVERN.

IVES (CONT'D)

The bomb is in the rock high above to trigger a collapse, sealing the cavern.

RED SOLDIER 2

How do we defuse the bomb up there?

IVES

We don’t. The explosion takes place as planned, exactly ten minutes after our landing. Everything is synchronized to that explosion. Both teams have countdown watches – ours counts down from ten at landing, to zero at the explosion.

He holds up his wrist to display a BLOOD-RED ‘10’ –

IVES (CONT'D)

Blue team is the reverse –

INSERT CUT: a PREVIOUS BRIEFING (BLUE TEAM). NEIL watches as Wheeler holds up her wrist to show a VIVID-BLUE ‘10’ –

WHEELER

Ten at the explosion, to zero at our extraction. If you are not at the LZ by zero, you are not leaving.

BACK TO RED-TEAM BRIEFING –

IVES
Our job is to fail to defuse the
bomb, while the splinter unit
achieves its task undetected.

RED SOLDIER 1

Which is?

IVES
Need to know. And you don’t. Any
other stupid questions? Right,
let’s get ready.

Everybody RISES. The Protagonist approaches Ives.

PROTAGONIST

I wanted to be on the first wave.
 
122.


IVES

There is no first wave – Red team and Blue team operate simultaneously. Do not get on the chopper if you can’t stop thinking in linear terms. You want to be on the team who lifts the contents of that capsule?

PROTAGONIST

Absolutely.

IVES

That’s us. We’re the splinter unit.

PROTAGONIST

Just us?

IVES

No one who knows the contents of that capsule can leave the field. I thought we’d manage ourselves.


EXT. COAST OF VIET NAM – DAY

Mahir shows Kat how to use a small pistol. Kat wears a two-piece bathing suit with a shirt over. He puts the pistol in a diver’s bag, loops the lanyard round Kat’s bare ankle.

MAHIR

It’s forty feet from the private deck to the water. Can you jump it?

KAT

I can dive it.

They hear the chopper SPIN UP. Mahir shows her a FLARE GUN –

MAHIR

Until you see my signal, you don’t let him die.

Kat nods. The chopper lifts off and ZOOMS overhead. Mahir guns the powerboat, STREAKING towards the yacht...

EXT. TENET CAMP – DAY

The Soldiers head for the Chinooks. As they pass the containers, some stare at them... the Chinooks lift off, some Chinooks rise, LIFTING the containers...


EXT. COAST OF VIET NAM – DAY

Mahir pulls up fifty yards from the stern of Sator’s yacht...

Kat grabs the pistol bag and slips into the water...
 
123.


INT./EXT. NORTHERN PLAIN – DAY

The Chinooks BEAT LOW over the windswept plain. Stalsk-12 appears on the horizon – terraced strip-mined land leading to a set of CONCRETESTRUCTURES FUSED TO THE EARTH...


EXT. SATOR’S YACHT, COAST OF VIET NAM – DAY

Kat quietly pulls herself out of the water and onto a rear platform. She STEALTHILY makes her way up through the boat...

EXT. LZ, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

The Chinooks long-lining containers RISE, slowing, as the other Chinooks BARREL in towards a large flat area – ANTI-AIRCRAFT GUNS start FIRING...

The Protagonist grabs his gun and LEAPS from the Chinook as it hovers close to the ground...


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Chinooks long-lining containers fly BACKWARDS towards a giant DEPRESSION...


INT. CONTAINER – CONTINUOUS

Neil looks out a peephole –

WHEELER
We’re coming in on the shock
wave... hang on, people! –

Neil GRABS his belts as WHUMMMMM!!!! The container SHUDDERS –


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

The SHOCK WAVE CONTRACTS – the Chinook ‘SURFING’ backwards in on the shock as it approaches the hypocentre... ENERGY BUILDING... GROUND LIFTING AND FLATTENING...


EXT. LZ, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist joins a unit of Red team soldiers who CHARGE an antiaircraft emplacement TAKING IT OUT BEFORE IT CAN FIRE ON THE SLOW-MOVING CHINOOKS...

The Protagonist uses his assault rifle to take out a gunemplacement. Ives uses an inverse grenade to violently ‘reassemble’ an enemy gun emplacement out of existence, shredding the enemy with reverse shrapnel...
 
124.


IVES

Draw them back into the city, away from Blue team...

The Chinooks drop down, land the containers – the Protagonist looks back to see, a hundred metres away, the containers OPEN
– Blue team ‘SCRAMBLING’ BACKWARDS from the containers...
SOME CARRY INJURED COMRADES, ALL SEEM EXHAUSTED...

The Protagonist and Red team press forward, blasting at the remaining enemy troops who run for the cover of the city... the Protagonist checks his watch – a BRIGHT-RED ‘9:59’, ‘9:58’...


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – DAY

The reverse explosion PEAKS. SUDDEN CALM as the Chinooks place the containers down – they open and Blue team runs out, ‘FORWARDS’, Neil at

the head, guns raised, BLASTING at the ENEMY SOLDIERS on the ridge... Neil checks his watch – a BRIGHT-BLUE ‘9:57’, ‘9:56’... he turns to see a GREY TRUCK ‘REVERSING’ towards the hole, tyres sucking up dust... a rope from its rear hitch TAUT into the hole...

BANG! BANG! SHOTS are sucked out of the ground around him – Blue team FORCES the enemy away from the hole, towards Red team (whose members fight ‘backwards’) – Neil shouts to Wheeler –

NEIL

Draw their fire! Pull them away...

He RACES down the ridge, following Wheeler...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – CONTINUOUS

Kat comes out to find a JUNIOR CREW MEMBER cleaning up a SMASHED BOWL OF RASPBERRIES. He looks up at her, surprised.

JUNIOR CREW MEMBER
Ma’am? We thought you’d gone
ashore.

KAT

I snuck back to surprise Andrei.

JUNIOR CREW MEMBER

The Boss left...

He trails off – they hear an INCOMING CHOPPER.
 
125.


KAT
I’ll get the mess. Have Mr Sator
find me here. Don’t tell the
others.

The Junior Crew Member nods, leaves – Kat moves to the RAIL, checks Mahir in the distance, the DAYBED, the water HOSE...

EXT. LZ, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist, Ives and Red team head towards the large concrete turnstile building on the outskirts of the city –

The Protagonist sees Wheeler running backwards towards a BUNKER on their right which UNEXPLODES –

– GUNFIRE CRACKLES around them, pinning them down...

They hit the bunker with an RPG, then race around the left of the turnstile building...


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – DAY

Wheeler leads Blue team down the hill – ‘chasing’ the enemy who run BACKWARDS – a BLUE TEAM member TRIGGERS A LANDMINE – another triggers an INVERSE LANDMINE –

WHEELER

Hit the deck! Mines!

As Blue team goes to the ground, Neil sees mines start to EXPLODE/IMPLODE in a wave towards him as the GREY TRUCK RACES BACKWARDS down the hill through the minefield, REVERSE-TRIGGERING THE MINES – Neil DIVES out of the way, almost run over...

Then gets up to follow the ‘path’ of the grey truck...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – LATE AFTERNOON

Kat unzips the diver’s bag, feels the handle of the gun, then slides the bag under the daybed, checking she can reach. She moves to the rail, crouches to UNCLIP the bottom safety cable. She looks at Mahir’s boat across the water...


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

Ives leads Red team into the deserted concrete structures via an efficient cover-and-move formation... the Protagonist shelters behind LARGE CONCRETE CHUNKS. Which VIBRATE... GATHERING ENERGY...
 
126.


The Protagonist JUMPS AWAY as the chunks RIP FROM THE GROUND, BOUNCING VIOLENTLY, DUSTILY OFF EACH OTHER AND FLYING UP INTO A GAP IN THE SIDE OF A BUILDING as an INVERSE RPG ZIPS back up into a WINDOW –

Ives has spotted the window and calls for an RPG to ‘follow’ the inverse one, BLASTING the building... the Protagonist checks his watch – ‘8:10’, ‘8:09’...


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – DAY

Neil checks his watch – ‘8:08’, ‘8:07’... he heads downhill, towards the city, where the rest of Blue team BEAT BACK the enemy...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – LATE AFTERNOON

Kat hoses the raspberries and glass from the deck... Sator appears, watching as she turns the water on herself.

SATOR

They told me you’d gone ashore.

KAT

They told me you’d flown off.

SATOR

I came back. To see you and Max.

KAT

Max is on shore with Anna. We need time, just you and me. After what -

SATOR

I was joking. A stupid joke –

KAT

You think I’m a terrible mother.

SATOR

We both know my opinion of you is higher than yours of me.

KAT

I want things to be better, Andrei.

She moves towards him. Sator nods. Picks up the phone –

SATOR

Have the captain turn the boat so we’ll see the sunset from here.
 
127.


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist RUNS across the street, FIRING at the

enemy... he SPOTS the TUNNEL ENTRANCE between two buildings.

PROTAGONIST

Ives! Splinter unit here!

Ives nods. RACES over, drawing fire the whole way...


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12

Neil races into the city streets... he sees Commander Wheeler and a BLUE SOLDIER take shelter in a large jagged BREACH in the ground-floor wall of a massive structure.

Neil is FORCED to hit the deck, ducking INVERTED fire all around... he looks over at Wheeler, and sees DUST GATHERING AROUND THE BREACH...

NEIL

Wheeler! Get out of there! Wheeler!

Wheeler hears him – tries to grab the Blue Soldier – MASSIVE CHUNKS OF CONCRETE SCRAPE OVER NEIL’S HEAD, FLYING TOWARDS WHEELER, who DIVES CLEAR – the wall REASSEMBLES ON TOP OF the Blue Soldier, CRUSHING HIM...

Neil winces. Starts crawling for better cover... checks his watch – ‘6:24’,‘6:23’...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – LATE AFTERNOON

Sator looks past Kat to the lowering sun.

SATOR

It’s going to be a beautiful sunset. I’ll get Max brought back – we should share the moment with him.

Sator picks up the phone. Kat looks at the shore, uneasy...


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

Ives and the Protagonist shelter as Red team exchanges fire with the Enemy further up the street. The Protagonist checks his watch – ‘5:15’, ‘5:14’...

PROTAGONIST
Let’s go. We’re running out of
time.
 
128.


IVES
If they see us, it’s all for
nothing.

PROTAGONIST

We need a distraction.

Ives looks ahead to the LEANING RUIN OF A BUILDING TOP...

IVES

Don’t worry about that...


EXT. CITY STREETS – DAY

Neil checks his watch – ‘5:10’, ‘5:09’... frustrated, pinned down, he looks around for a way to break cover...

Commander Wheeler, with the rest of Blue team, SHELTERS in the shadow of the RUINED BASE of a building, pinned by ENEMY FIRE from the base of the building...

WHEELER
RPG! Take out the base – on my mark
–

She checks her watch – ‘5:04’, ‘5:03’...

The BLUE RPG SOLDIER takes aim...


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist spots SMALL DEBRIS ROLLING across the street... GATHERING MOMENTUM...

PROTAGONIST

Ives!

Ives sees LARGER and LARGER debris is ROLLING down the street towards the LEANING RUIN OF A BUILDING TOP...

IVES

It’s about to get distracting...

He signals a RED RPG SOLDIER...

IVES (CONT'D)

On my mark!

He looks at his watch – ‘5:01’, ‘5:00’ –

IVES (CONT'D)

Fire!

The leaning ruin THRUSTS UPWARDS –
 
129.


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

Wheeler watches as the Leaning Ruin’s UPPER STOREYS REASSEMBLE, as its BASE EXPLODES...


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist takes cover as the Leaning Ruin’s BASE REASSEMBLES as its UPPER STOREYS EXPLODE... the Protagonist and Ives race at the tunnel entrance – the GREY TRUCK RACES at them as they dive for the tunnel...


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

Wheeler ducks as the weight of the upper storeys COLLAPSES the building...

Neil lifts his head after the EXPLO/IMPLOSION. Clear. He gets up and starts RUNNING...


EXT. TUNNEL ENTRANCE, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist and Ives RACE into the tunnel, HITTING A TRIPWIRE WHICH BLOWS THE TUNNEL ENTRANCE DOWN BEHIND THEM AS THEY JUMP INSIDE...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – LATE AFTERNOON

Sator hangs up. He holds a SILVER PILL in the sunlight, studying it...

KAT

What’s that?

SATOR

I borrowed it from the CIA.

KAT

But what is it?

SATOR

The way the world ends, not with a bang but a whimper.

KAT

I don’t understand.

SATOR

When I take this, it’s all over.

KAT

Then don’t take it, yet.

Sator looks at her, needing her to care.
 
130.


SATOR

Why not?

KAT

We’ve got the sunset coming and a little vodka left...

SATOR

And Max will be here soon... they thought it was you, not Anna, on shore with Max.

Kat steps up in front of Sator, seductive...

KAT
As long as you can tell the
difference...

Sator smiles appreciatively, but pulls out his phone –

SATOR

A moment’s business, my love...


EXT. MAHIR’S BOAT – CONTINUOUS

Mahir checks his radio –

IVES
(over radio)
Not clear. Repeat, not clear...


INT. TUNNEL, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist and Ives look back at the COLLAPSED ENTRANCE –

PROTAGONIST

We’re committed now.

They turn and RACE through the mining tunnel...

IVES
(into radio)
Just hold tight – we’re almost
there...


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

Neil spots SATOR’S GREY MI8 OVERHEAD, a rope hanging down. Across the street he sees VOLKOV REVERSE-EXIT the tunnel mouth, CROUCHING to ‘DERIG’ a tripwired booby trap, carrying it towards the chopper, then LEAPING up onto the line – RISING from the streets...
 
131.


Neil STARES. CONCERNED. Checks his watch – ‘4:10’, ‘4:09’... Then TAKES OFF, SPRINTING –

WHEELER

Neil!

She watches him go ahead, then signals Blue team to keep pushing forward...


INT. TUNNEL, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist and Ives run down the tunnel... they slow as they see a BODY, blue armband, lying on the ground on the opposite side of a SET OF BARS at the end of the tunnel.

They can see into the hypocentre, the GIANT ATOMIC-HEWN CAVERN, daylight above, CAPSULE on the rock floor next to the mouth of a BORE HOLE. The Protagonist checks his watch – ‘4:06’, ‘4:05’ ... Ives checks the ELECTRONIC LOCK –

IVES

We don’t have anything big enough to blow this. Try him –

The Protagonist reaches through the bars and checks the body

– FREEZES: attached to a zip, a TALISMAN – A COIN WITH A HOLE HANGING FROM A SMALL LENGTH OF ORANGE AND YELLOW STRING...

The Protagonist looks at it, quizzical, rises –

PROTAGONIST

Nothing. Can you pick it?

SATOR (O.S.)

I hope not. I paid a lot for that lock...

WHAM! Ives goes down – SHOT BY VOLKOV, bullet SPARKING off his helmet – on the other side of the bars – gun pointed at the Protagonist, FIELD RADIO held out... Sator’s voice ECHOES through the tunnel –

SATOR (CONT'D)
(over phone)
How do you like where my journey
began, and yours ends?

Volkov takes the Protagonist’s gun. Forces him to push Ives’s gun through the bars.

PROTAGONIST

A little radioactive for my taste.

Volkov drops the guns into the water, places the radio by the bars...
 
132.


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – LATE AFTERNOON

Sator steps away from Kat as he speaks quietly into the phone.

SATOR

My fate was always bound up with radiation. We’d work where no one else would. We made a devil’s bargain – money for time. We sold our futures.

Kat looks at Mahir’s boat. Nothing. She looks to the shore.

Far in the distance, she can see the TENDER APPROACHING...


INT. TUNNEL, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist looks at Volkov. At the bars between him and the capsule...

PROTAGONIST

Now you’re making the same mistake for the entire world.

SATOR
(over phone)
It wasn’t a mistake. I made the bargain I could. What was yours? You fight for a cause you barely understand. With people you trust so little you’ve told them nothing about what you’re doing. When I die the world dies with me. And your knowledge dies with you. Buried in the tomb like an anonymous Egyptian builder sealed in the pyramid to keep his secret...


INT. TURNSTILE BUILDING, STALSK-12 – DAY

Neil comes into the turnstile room... he watches ENEMY TROOPS enter/exit the machine, inverting to join the battle. He waits for his chance... the room is empty... he sees himself through the proving window, and RUNS at the machine...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – EVENING

Sator speaks into his phone –

SATOR
Your faith is blind. You’re a
fanatic.
 
133.


PROTAGONIST
(over phone)
What’s more fanatical than trying to destroy the world?

Kat moves towards Sator, but he raises a finger...

SATOR

I’m not. I’m creating a new one. Somewhere, sometime, a man in a crystalline tower throws a switch and Armageddon is both triggered and avoided. Entropy inverts the same way the magnetic poles have switched 183 times over the millennia. Now time itself switches direction.

Sator looks out at the lowering sun...

SATOR (CONT'D)

The same sunshine we’ve basked in will warm the faces of our descendants generations from now.

Kat looks at Mahir’s boat. Nothing. She looks to shore, watching the TENDER APPROACHING...


INT. TUNNEL, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist looks at his watch – ‘2:12’, ‘2:11’...

PROTAGONIST

How can they want to destroy us?

SATOR
(over phone)
Because their oceans rose and their rivers ran dry. Don’t you see –? Their world shrivelled because of us. They have no choice but to turn back, there’s no life ahead of them. And we’re responsible. Knowing this, do you still want me to stop?

PROTAGONIST

Yes. Each generation looks out for its own survival.


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – CONTINUOUS

Sator looks out at the glittering water –

SATOR

That’s exactly what they’re doing.
 
134.


PROTAGONIST
(over phone)
Sure, but not you. You’re a
traitor. Bringing death to all
because you have no life of your
own left.

SATOR

When I’m done, life continues.

PROTAGONIST
(over phone)
Not your son’s.

SATOR

My greatest sin was to bring a son into a world I knew was ending... do you think God will forgive me?

PROTAGONIST
(over phone)
For killing your son? No.

SATOR
He should understand – he killed
his own.


EXT. CITY STREETS, STALSK-12 – DAY

Neil, FORWARDS NOW, spots a GREY TRUCK outside the turnstile building – he jumps in, FIRING IT UP –

RACING THROUGH THE STREETS, PAST THE IMPLODING/ EXPLODING BUILDING, racing for the tunnel mouth, trying to head off the Protagonist and Ives –

NEIL

Wait! Wait!

They dive into the tunnel, which COLLAPSES. Neil sets his sights on the hypocentre ridge above, GUNS the engine...

EXT. LZ, STALSK-12 – DAY

Wheeler leads Blue team towards the CHINOOKS LOWERING CONTAINERS... as they carry their wounded and lurch towards the containers, they see Red team ‘REASSEMBLING’ the anti-aircraft guns...


INT. TUNNEL, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist watches Volkov pick up a BLACK, METAL, GEOMETRICALLY COMPLEX BAR... the algorithm.
 
135.


PROTAGONIST

You don’t believe in God. Or a new future. Or anything outside your own experience.

SATOR
(over phone)
That’s all any of us knows. The
rest is belief, and I don’t have
it.

PROTAGONIST

Without it you’re not human. You’re a madman.

SATOR
(over phone)
Or a god of sorts.

PROTAGONIST

Like I said.

Volkov slowly backs towards the capsule with the algorithm...

The Protagonist looks down at Ives – whose hand is MOVING...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – CONTINUOUS

A BEEP. Sator checks his watch.

SATOR

Our time is up.

He looks across at Kat standing by the rail.

SATOR (CONT'D)

I’ll give my wife your love.

PROTAGONIST
(over phone)
You’re forgetting, I haven’t met
her, yet.

SATOR

That’s right, after you meet her, she dies. I’ll just give her my love, instead.


INT. HYPOCENTRE, STALSK-12 – DAY

Volkov seals the capsule – hooks it to a winch... the Protagonist watches Ives’s hand emerge with a SIDEARM... Volkov raises the capsule up over the mouth of the DEEP BORE HOLE, then steps back, preparing to release the winch and drop the capsule into the well...
 
136.


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – SUNSET

Sator goes to hang up, pauses... an afterthought –

SATOR

Volkov?


INT. TUNNEL, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

Volkov RUSHES FORWARD with his gun...

SATOR
(over phone; in Russian,
subtitled)
– Shoot him in the head. –

Volkov PULLS HIS TRIGGER – but the Dead Tenet Soldier has ‘RISEN’ to be in front of the gun ‘ABSORBING’ the bullet – then LEAPING to one side, ALIVE –


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – CONTINUOUS

Sator hears the shot, SATISFIED – Kat pulls the phone away –

KAT

Enough business, Andrei...


INT. TUNNEL, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist DIVES to where Ives is lying, GRABS his gun – Volkov TURNS, RUNNING FOR the winch-release –

PROTAGONIST

WAIT! WAIT!

He FIRES at Volkov, who goes down just short of the winch...

Ives struggles to his feet, checking his watch – ‘1:07’, ‘1:06’...

Hearing BEEPS, Ives looks up. THE LOCK is open –


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

Neil RACES up the slope to the ridge – through the MINEFIELD, setting off personnel mines in his wake, NARROWLY AVOIDING RUNNING HIMSELF OVER...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – EVENING

As Kat pours him a drink, Sator looks out at the glowing horizon, fiddling with the silver pill... he POINTS –
 
137.


SATOR

Tomorrow the sun will rise in that same spot. For the first time in history. Because I’ve told it to. (looks at her like she’s
a loyal dog)
You have no idea what I’m talking about, do you?

She looks at him, smiles sweetly.

KAT
It sounds terribly important,
Andrei.

He reaches for her – she gets up, moves to the rail –

SATOR

Where’re you going?

She grabs the hose, starts spraying herself –

KAT

Aren’t you hot?

Kat sprays the deck in front of the rail –

SATOR

What’re you doing, now?

KAT

I spilled sunscreen.

SATOR

So what?

KAT

It’s slippery.

SATOR

Just come here...

She looks at Sator lying on the daybed like an appalling emperor. Moves towards him. Grabs the sunscreen.

KAT

Turn over.

SATOR

The sun’s almost gone.

KAT

You’ll like it.

He rolls over, obedient. She squirts a large dollop across his back. Looks up at Mahir’s boat, hopeful. Nothing.
 
138.


She checks her watch as she lazily smears the sunscreen across Sator’s back. He groans. Kat watches the TENDER APPROACHING, she can just make out HERSELF AND HER SON...


INT. TUNNEL, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist watches the Dead Tenet Soldier RACING BACKWARDS from the gate, out of the tunnel –

IVES

COME ON!

The Protagonist TURNS – Ives swings the gate open – they RACE through, just before it closes, SLAMMING SHUT behind them –

IVES (CONT'D)

Tunnel’s sealed!

The Protagonist steps over Volkov, STRUGGLES with the capsule, it swings, HANGING precariously over the well...

IVES (CONT'D)
(into radio)
Mahir, do you copy?


EXT. MAHIR’S BOAT – EVENING

Mahir looks through binoculars, FRUSTRATED, flare gun ready –

IVES
(over radio)
Hold! Repeat, hold!


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – DAY

Neil REVERSES towards the hole – jumps out, pulling a line from the rear winch...


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – SUNSET

Kat looks at Mahir’s boat. Nothing. She checks her watch... looks down at the tender approaching – it’s close enough she can clearly see HERSELF CHATTING AND LAUGHING WITH MAX... she jumps up from the daybed, holding the diver’s bag. Sator looks up at her, surprised.

KAT

I can’t do this.

SATOR

Don’t spoil this moment, Kat.

KAT

I can’t let you think you’ve won...
 
139.


Sator looks at her, suddenly wary...

SATOR
What are you talking about,
Katherine?

KAT

I’m not letting you go to your grave thinking we’re all coming with you. I can’t give you that –

She pulls out the SILENCED PISTOL. He is UTTERLY UNAFRAID.

KAT (CONT'D)

You’re dying alone, Andrei.

SATOR
(contemptuous)
No, I’m not.

KAT

Andrei, look in my eyes. Which do you see, despair... or anger?

SATOR

What?

KAT
I’m not the woman who could find
love for you even though you’d
scarred her on the inside...

Kat pulls up her shirt to reveal the MASSIVE, ANGRY SCAR –

KAT (CONT'D)

I’m the vengeful bitch you scarred on the outside.

Sator realizes he’s been conned – LUNGES FOR HER –

SATOR

You –!

KAT SHOOTS HIM IN THE UPPER CHEST – his hands go to his chest

– he GASPS, air leaking from his lungs... Kat ROLLS Sator off the daybed onto his back – he GURGLES – she GRABS his legs –
SLIDES HIM AT THE GAP BELOW THE RAIL –

Sator SHOOTS off the deck, TUMBLING DOWN to the sea – his head CRACKS on the rear platform as he HITS the water –

EXT. MAHIR’S BOAT – CONTINUOUS

Mahir lowers his binoculars, STARTLED, as he sees Sator’s body pitch into the sea –
 
140.


MAHIR
(into radio)
She’s killed him! She’s killed him!

Mahir GUNS the engine, racing towards the yacht...


INT. HYPOCENTRE, STALSK-12 – DAY

The Protagonist opens the capsule, revealing the algorithm –

IVES
She jumped the gun – she killed
him!

The Protagonist looks at Ives, ashen – A LINE DROPS BETWEEN THEM –


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

Neil is at the wheel of the truck. Through the rear-view mirror he looks at his line running into the hole. Through the windshield he watches Red and Blue soldiers finish loading and LIFT OFF. He checks his watch – ‘00:09’, ‘00:08’...

NEIL

Fuck it –

He GUNS it, PULLING AWAY FROM THE HOLE –


INT. HYPOCENTRE, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist and Ives are YANKED into the air, the Protagonist CLUTCHING the algorithm – as they approach the rocky edge of the hole, Ives raises his boots to cushion the – IMPACT! They BOUNCE PAINFULLY over the lip –


EXT. HYPOCENTRE RIDGE, STALSK-12 – CONTINUOUS

The truck DRAGS them along the rocky ground, away from the hole as... BOOOOM!!!! THE ROCKY GROUND BUCKLES WITH FORCE –

SMOKE and FLAMES BLAST up out of the hole in an ANGRY PLUME –

The ground around the hole COLLAPSES IN AN EVER-GROWING RADIUS –

The line SNAPS, leaving the Protagonist and Ives TUMBLING to a stop... The SUBSIDENCE approaches, SLOWING, SLOWING... the ground OPENS UP under the Protagonist – Ives GRABS HIM – the Protagonist has the algorithm in his hands, Ives PULLS him back onto solid ground...
 
141.


EXT. LZ, STALSK-12 – DAY

Wheeler PULLS a last Blue team soldier into the container as her watch hits ZERO – the container door SLAMS shut –

BLUE TEAM SOLDIER

Do you think they made it?


EXT. PRIVATE DECK, SATOR’S YACHT – SUNSET

Kat picks up the shell casing, drops it in the diver’s bag, zips it up, attaches the lanyard to her ankle, sprays down the deck, WASHING away BLOOD and SUNSCREEN...

Kat steps up to the railing. Watches Mahir, down below,
getting a line on Sator’s body. Kat glances over at the
TENDER ARRIVING WITH HER EARLIER SELF AND HER SON... Kat
DIVES, ARCING GRACEFULLY THROUGH THE SUNSET...

Kat’s earlier self, stepping onto the yacht, catches a glimpse of a graceful form SLICING into the water. She looks, CURIOUS, but Max TUGS her sleeve and she turns.


EXT. COAST OF VIET NAM – CONTINUOUS

On Mahir’s SPEEDING boat, Kat hands Mahir the diver’s bag and looks up ahead to the last light of day...

PROTAGONIST
(over radio)
Kat, you jumped the gun!

Mahir hands her the radio –

KAT
I couldn’t do it, I couldn’t let
him die thinking he’d won. And I
knew you’d find a way.

Silence. She glances Mahir, suddenly concerned –

KAT (CONT'D)

Wait, you found a way? We’re okay, right?

PROTAGONIST
(over radio)
Yeah. We found a way. Be safe.

Mahir’s boat SPEEDS AWAY through the twilight...

...DRAGGING Sator’s body behind.
 
142.


EXT. WINDSWEPT PLAIN OUTSIDE STALSK-12 – EVENING

A Chinook swirls snow around the blasted ruins... Ives and the Protagonist slump, bruised, exhausted, gas masks off, breathing hard. On the ground between them – the matte-black algorithm... Neil approaches, removing his gas mask...

PROTAGONIST

I thought you were inverted.

NEIL

Changed gears halfway – you needed help here.

IVES
We needed help down there.
(to Protagonist)
How’d you get that lock open?

PROTAGONIST
It wasn’t me.
(to Neil)
Didn’t your team need you?

NEIL
I’ll get them on the next pass.
Right, Ives?

IVES

Once I’ve caught my breath.

The Protagonist reaches for the algorithm – Ives PULLS it out of his reach – his gun laying casually across his leg. As Neil and the Protagonist watch, Ives takes his weapon in hand, gets to his feet... He lifts the algorithm... looks around at the deserted plain above Stalsk-12...

IVES (CONT'D)

Nice and private.

Ives SEPARATES the algorithm into THREE COMPONENTS –

PROTAGONIST

No one who’s seen this leaves the field...

IVES

We hide it, we end our lives. It’s the only way to be sure.

Ives TOSSES them each one component...

IVES (CONT'D)

But as to when...

Ives HOLSTERS his sidearm.
 
143.


IVES (CONT'D)

Maybe that’s every man’s decision to make for himself.

NEIL

You’re not going to kill us?

IVES

If I ever find you I will.

NEIL

But you won’t look too hard.

IVES

Yes, I will.

Neil shakes his head, smiling at this. Ives heads towards the Chinook. Neil and the Protagonist watch him go...

NEIL

You’re not heading back to London to check on Kat, are you?

PROTAGONIST
Of course not. That would be too
dangerous.

NEIL

Even from afar.

PROTAGONIST

Even from afar.

Neil thinks of something. Looks at Ives –

NEIL

Ives, wait!

Neil takes his section of the algorithm, REATTACHES it to the Protagonist’s.

PROTAGONIST

You’re really going back in?

NEIL

I’m the only one who could’ve got that door open in time, right Ives?

Ives looks at Neil, sizing him up.

IVES

I don’t have any locksmiths as good as you.

Neil turns to the Protagonist, grabs his BACKPACK...
 
144.


NEIL

See? That’s me in there, again. Weaving another pass in the fabric of this mission.

Neil SWINGS his pack onto his back, revealing a TALISMAN – A COIN WITH A HOLE TIED to the zip WITH ORANGE AND YELLOW THREAD –

PROTAGONIST

Neil, wait.

NEIL

We just saved the world – we can’t leave anything to chance.

The Protagonist thinks. Struggles.

PROTAGONIST

But can we change things? If we do it differently...?

Neil looks back at the Protagonist. Sees his struggle...

NEIL
What’s happened’s happened.
(smiles)
Which is an expression of faith in the mechanics of the world, not an excuse to do nothing.

PROTAGONIST

Fate?

NEIL

Call it what you want.

PROTAGONIST

What do you call it?

NEIL

Reality. Now let me go.

The Protagonist lets him walk, tears welling up... CALLS OUT –

PROTAGONIST
Hey!
(Neil turns)
You never did tell me who recruited you.

NEIL
(smiles)
Haven’t you guessed by now? You did. Just not when you thought. You have a future in the past. Years ago for me. Years from now for you.
 
145.


PROTAGONIST

You’ve known me for years?

NEIL
(nods)
For me, I think this is the end of a beautiful friendship.

PROTAGONIST

But for me it’s just the beginning?

NEIL

And we get up to some stuff. You’re gonna love it. You’ll see. This whole operation is a temporal pincer.

PROTAGONIST

Whose?

NEIL

Yours. You’re only halfway there. I’ll see you at the beginning, friend.

Neil turns. Follows Ives to board the Chinook. The Protagonist watches him go...

NEIL (V.O.)

We’re the people saving the world from what might have been...

The Protagonist looks down at the algorithm in his hands.

NEIL (V.O.)
The world will never know what
could’ve happened...

He pulls up his collar and walks into the snow...


EXT. SCHOOL GATES – AFTERNOON

Kat is walking up the road to the school gates.

NEIL (V.O.)
...and even if they did they
wouldn’t care...

She feels something wrong. Looking across the road, she sees a car with tinted windows shadowing her.

NEIL (V.O.)

...because no one cares about the bomb that didn’t go off...

She gets out the dumb phone the Protagonist had given her...
 
146.


NEIL (V.O.)

...just the one that did...


INT./EXT. CAR – CONTINUOUS

Priya is in the front passenger seat. The DRIVER next to her has a GUN and SILENCER sitting on his knee...

PRIYA

Do it before the boy comes out.

The rear door opens – a dull thud – the Driver is SHOT by a silenced pistol –

PROTAGONIST (O.S.)

That’s your idea of mercy?

Priya turns – the Protagonist has a gun to the back of her seat.

PROTAGONIST (CONT'D)

You gave me your word.

PRIYA
And I told you what it would be
worth. Here. Today. How did you
know?

He holds up a dumb phone, plays a voicemail –

KAT
(via recording)
Cannon Place, 3 o’clock, it’s –

PROTAGONIST

Posterity.


EXT. SCHOOL GATES – CONTINUOUS

Kat hits send, speaks into the phone –

KAT
Cannon Place, 3 o’clock, it’s
probably nothing...


INT./EXT. CAR – CONTINUOUS

The Protagonist watches Kat.

PROTAGONIST

I told you you’d have to start looking differently at the world.

PRIYA

I have to tie up the loose ends.
 
147.


PROTAGONIST

That was never your job.

PRIYA

Then whose was it?

The Protagonist brings his focus back to Priya.

PROTAGONIST

Mine. I realized I wasn’t working for you. We’ve both been working for me... I’m the protagonist.

PRIYA
Then you’d better tie up those
loose ends.

He shoots her through the seat back. She slumps forward.

PROTAGONIST

Mission accomplished.

The Protagonist looks across the road. The kids stream out...

Kat sees Max coming, takes one last look at the dark car...

NEIL (V.O.)

...but it’s the bomb that didn’t go off...

Kat shakes her head, smiling at her own folly, looks at the phone like it’s silly –

NEIL (V.O.)
...the danger no one knew was
real...

She tosses the phone carelessly into her bag.

NEIL (V.O.)

That’s the bomb with the real power to change the world.

The Protagonist watches Kat and Max walk away. Max offers Kat his hand and we –

FADE OUT.

CREDITS.

END.
