INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE- BATHROOM - DAY

Steven takes a shower.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Steven sits on the edge of his bed, naked and numb. His gaze is vacant - he looks completely blank. The room is relatively dark. The curtains are drawn. Steven stands up and hurriedly gets dressed.


EXT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - FRONT DOOR - DAY

Steven emerges from the front door of his house and finds an envelope on the doormat, with his name written on it. He opens the envelope.

Inside is the watch he had given Martin, with a note. One of the watch straps is missing. Snapped off. Steven looks inside the envelope for the missing piece of leather, but it is not there. The note, written in very neat handwriting, reads:

"Time shows no mercy. By the way, you were right. Metal straps are better. Leather straps break."


INT. HOSPITAL - PATIENT'S ROOM - DAY

Anna is sitting next to Bob's bed. Kim is lying on her back on the other bed. She is playing a game on her mobile phone. Her legs are covered from the knees up with a sheet. Her toes are pointed. Exhausted, Anna rests her head on the metal bed frame. She strokes Bob's legs.

BOB
When are we going home?
 
63.


ANNA
Tomorrow or the day after. We'll get all our tests done and when the doctors say so, we can go home.

BOB
But you are doctors too. Tell them we can go home.

ANNA
We'll tell them, darling.

Kim interrupts the conversation.

KIM
Mum, did Martin come by while I was sleeping?

Anna stands up and looks at her daughter.

ANNA
No.

KIM
Can you turn me onto my side,

please?

Anna goes over, turns Kim onto her side and returns to her chair. Kim has her back to her mother now. They cannot make eye contact.

KIM (CONT’D)

What time is it?

ANNA
Nine.

KIM
Is Dad here?

ANNA
No, he'll be here soon. Would you

like me to fetch you some juice?

KIM
No. Don't go anywhere. Stay here.

Silence. Kim's phone rings. She picks it up.

KIM (CONT’D)
Good morning. How are you? Aren't
you coming by? Okay. Just my mum,
my father will be here soon. Yes.
You're here? I can't.

(MORE)
 
64.

KIM (CONT’D)
Are you coming up to see me?
(Kim laughs)
You really think that's possible?

Well, let's see. Okay. Okay.

Kim's toes uncurl. Her legs slowly start to move. Kim pulls herself up and sits on the bed. She then stands up and walks over to the window.

KIM (CONT’D)

Martin? Yes, I stood up. Yes, thank you. Can you see me? Yes, I'm at the window, I'm standing at the window. Can you see me?

Kim waves with her right hand. Then she smoothes her hair down with both hands.

KIM (CONT’D)
I can't see you, can you see me?
I'm waving at you. Can you see me

waving? Great. Yes.

Anna gets up and walks over to the window.

BOB
Mum, I want to stand up like Kim.

Why can she get up and I can't?

KIM
All right. I'm going back to bed now. I'm lying down now. Okay. Thank you. Me too. Next time you come, call me first so that I'm not sleeping. I'll tell them. Me too. Bye.

As Kim lies down, her legs seize up again and her toes curl back into the soles of her feet. Anna looks out of the window. She scans the people in the street, but she cannot see Martin. Bob falls out of bed.

BOB
Mum, I'm coming over to the window.

Anna rushes over, picks Bob up, and puts him back into bed.

ANNA
You'll be able to soon, my darling. Kim is older than you, that's why she can do it. Soon you'll be strong enough to stand up too.
 
65.


Anna turns to look at Kim, who has her back to them and her face pressed up against the window.

ANNA (CONT’D)

Who were you talking to?

KIM
Martin. He sends his regards.

ANNA
I don't want you talking with him

ever again.

KIM
Why?

ANNA
Because I said so.

Kim does not respond.

ANNA (CONT’D)

Did you hear what I said?

KIM
(under her breath)

Fuck you.

ANNA
What did you say?

KIM
I didn't say anything.

ANNA
Yes you did. What did you say, Kim?

Anna grabs her daughter with both hands and shakes her hard.
Kim cries out in pain.

KIM
Mum, let go, you're hurting me. I

didn't say anything.

Anna lets Kim fall abruptly back down on the bed.

ANNA
I'm not like your father. You better watch your mouth. If that's the way you want it, I'm confiscating your phone right here and now. That'll teach you to be rude to your mother.
 
66.


KIM
Give me my phone back. Please.

ANNA
You can forget it.

A long beat of silence.

KIM
Don't be scared, mum. Don't get hysterical. It's not that tragic. Sometimes your body hurts from not moving and you can't sleep, that's all. The important thing is to make sure you have everything you need within reach. That's all. You'll see. You won't be able to move either, but you'll get used to it.

Anna stares at her speechless and her anger morphs into fear.


INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - AFTERNOON

Anna is talking to Steven. She is upset. He hugs her and tries to calm her down.

STEVEN
You're tired. Go home and rest. I'm here now.

ANNA
I'm not tired. I'm telling you the truth, I really saw it happen.

STEVEN
It was just a coincidence.

ANNA
How can it be a coincidence? How come neither of them have been able to get up and walk until now?

STEVEN
Darling, listen to yourself.

ANNA
I saw it.

STEVEN
Okay. It just means things are getting better. That's all it means. That Kim is getting better. Go home and rest for a bit. Please.
 
67.


ANNA
They're not better. They're worse.

STEVEN
This afternoon there' ll be an emergency meeting of the medical board. Andrew and I took the initiative of inviting two outstanding specialists from the Presbyterian University Hospital of Columbia. They've already arrived from New York and I'm meeting them this afternoon to brief them about the case. One of them is actually a personal friend of the director. Dr. Johnston. You must have heard of him. He's the best there is when it comes to paralytic disorders.

ANNA
Yes.


EXT. ANNA'S CAR - AFTERNOON

Anna is driving. We can sense that contradicting thoughts are going through her mind.


EXT. MARTIN'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Anna pulls over outside Martin's house. She looks at the house, trying to figure out whether anyone is home. She takes a deep breath and gets out of the car. She hesitates for a moment, looks around, then carries on walking up to the front door of Martin's house.


EXT. MARTIN'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Martin opens the front door. He is home alone. He is wearing a T-shirt and boxer shorts and holding a plate of spaghetti. His hair is wet and freshly combed.

ANNA
Good evening. I'm not sure if you

remember me.

MARTIN
Of course I remember you. How are

you? Come in.

ANNA
Thank you.
 
68.


INT. MARTIN'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Anna sits on the sofa. Martin brings her a glass of iced water.

ANNA
Thank you very much. I'd like to have a talk with you. I won't take up much of your time.

MARTIN
Of course. I've only got ten minutes because I have to get to my French class. What's up?

ANNA
My husband told me about you and

your father.

Martin puts his plate of spaghetti down on the table. He looks at Anna and smiles faintly.

MARTIN
Did he also tell you about my mum?

ANNA
No.

MARTIN
I'm sorry, then maybe I'm not the one you should hear it from. Ever since your husband killed my father, he's been flirting with my mother constantly. To be honest, she has feelings for him too. She really likes your husband's hands and the truth is he does have very beautiful hands. All doctors have nice, clean hands. You see, now that we only have each other, my mother and I are friends and we tell each other everything. So I told her that I have no problem if she wants to go ahead with it, and anyway, he seems like a nice guy. Why would I stand in the way of her trying to get her life back on track? I mean, I'll be gone in a few years. I'll get a job and I'll be gone.
 
69.


ANNA
Look, if my husband made a mistake, if out of negligence or I don't know what he somehow caused this tragic thing to happen, I don't understand why my children and I have to pay the price.

Martin picks up his plate of spaghetti.

MARTIN
Not long after my dad died, someone told me that I eat spaghetti in exactly the same way he did, told me what an extraordinary impression this fact had made on him. "Look how the boy eats spaghetti," he said. "Exactly the same way his father did. He sticks his fork in and twirls it around and around until the spaghetti is all twisted up and then he puts it in his mouth." At the time, I thought I was the only one who ate spaghetti like that. Only my dad and me. I realised later, of course, that everyone eats spaghetti that way. They all stick their fork in and twirl it around.

Martin stands up.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

I was really upset when I realised that, maybe even more upset than when they announced to me that he was dead. I don't know if what is happening is fair, but it's the closest thing to justice I can think of. But enough chit chat, time's getting on and if I'm late for class I'm done for. You have a good day.


INT. HOSPITAL - MEETING ROOM - NIGHT

The medical council is underway. Anna, Steven, Matthew, the Hospital Director and Dr. Nichols are all present, as are the VISITING CONSULTANTS. Anna looks defeated. She sits in a chair with her arms folded and watches the proceedings without saying a word. We cannot hear what is being said. We watch the scene unfold through a window.
 
70.


EXT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE - NIGHT

The Hospital Director is saying goodbye to the visiting consultants. Steven and Anna also say goodbye. The consultants get into a car and drive off. The Hospital Director gives Steven a hug and pats him on the back.

HOSPITAL DIRECTOR
So, I don't see any reason for the children to stay in hospital.

STEVEN
You mean you think you've done

everything you can?

HOSPITAL DIRECTOR
Yes, Steven, I believe we have done everything we can.

STEVEN
Sorry, but if I was running this hospital I would feel like a complete failure. A loser. I wouldn't be able to sleep at night.

The Hospital Director looks at Steven then walks away.

HOSPITAL DIRECTOR
Good night, Anna.

ANNA
Good night, Ed.

Anna looks at her husband.

ANNA (CONT’D)

I suggest you sign the release forms tomorrow and then they can go home.


INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Anna marches angrily along the corridor. Steven follows, trying to catch up. Suddenly, Anna falls over. Steven panics. Anna gets back up.

ANNA
I tripped. It's nothing. My

shoelace was undone. I tripped.

She gets up and carries on walking, leaving Steven standing there. She is almost running.
 
71.


INT. CAFETERIA - MORNING

Anna is sitting at a table, waiting. The cafeteria is almost empty. It doesn't seem like the kind of place where Anna would normally choose to go. She is well dressed, but looks drained. Matthew comes over to the table. He kisses Anna on the cheek and sits opposite her. She wavers for a moment before she starts speaking.

MATTHEW
Good evening, Anna.

ANNA
Good evening, Matthew. Sorry to

bother you.

MATTHEW
It's no bother, really.

ANNA
As I said on the phone, I'd rather Steven didn't find out about us meeting like this.

MATTHEW
He won't. I'm listening.

ANNA
Four years ago, you were operating as a team, weren't you? I mean four years ago, you were the anesthetist on some of Steven's operations?

MATTHEW
Of course.

ANNA
Were you the anesthetist for

Jonathan Lang?

Matthew leans back in his chair and pretends rather unconvincingly that he is trying to place the patient's name. The waiter arrives with the coffee that Anna has ordered. Their conversation is interrupted.

MATTHEW
A gin and tonic, please.

The waiter leaves.

MATTHEW (CONT’D)

Who's Jonathan Lang?
 
72.


ANNA
Male, 46 years old, one of Steven's patients. He died on the operating table.

MATTHEW
Anna, there have been so many
patients over the years, so many
operations. I don't remember him,

I'm afraid. I'm sorry.

ANNA
Can you find his file in the records and bring it to me, please? I'll give it straight back to you. I just want to have a look at his medical history. And the cause of death.

MATTHEW
I don't think that will be possible. I'm sorry, Anna. I can't just take a file from the hospital. Why do you need it?

ANNA
Please.

MATTHEW
Look, I can't bring you the file but I can tell you a couple of things about the case. I remember him now, I put him under. But what do I get in return?

ANNA
What you didn't get that day we

came for lunch.

MATTHEW
When?

ANNA
Now. Had Steven been drinking?

MATTHEW
Yes.

ANNA
Can it be considered his mistake?

MATTHEW
Yes. It definitely wasn't mine,
that's for sure.
(MORE)
 
73.

MATTHEW (CONT’D)

You know an anesthetist is never to blame for the bad outcome of an operation. The surgeon is responsible. He'd had two drinks that morning before we went in to prepare. Luckily none of the others realised, I was the only one who knew. But that wasn't exactly unusual back then.

MATTHEW (CONT’D)

You know that. He was drunk during almost every operation.

ANNA
Do you remember Lang's case

history?

Matthew leans forward in his chair again and rests his arms on the table.


EXT. DESERTED ROAD - MORNING

Matthew's car is parked on a deserted road on the edge of town. There are no pedestrians and very few cars. Anna stares straight ahead as she jerks off the anesthetist. He pushes his seat back to the reclining position. As soon as he comes, he pulls the chair forward, starts the engine, and they drive off.


EXT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - FRONT DOOR - AFTERNOON

The front door is open. The children are being carried into the house with the help of two paramedics. Steven seems fairly optimistic as he manically rushes about, supervising the procedure.


INT. KIM'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Kim's bedroom has been rearranged to accommodate both the children's beds. The room is bright, the curtains have been pulled back to let in the sunlight. Anna changes the feeding solution in Bob and Kim's Levin tubes.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Steven and Anna are having dinner. He is the only one eating. Anna toys with the wedges of potato on her plate with her fork.
 
74.


Steven watches her intently, trying to get a reaction, but she remains stubbornly silent. Steven fills Anna's glass with wine. She does not say thank you.

STEVEN
This meat is delicious.

His wife does not respond.

STEVEN (CONT’D)
You were right after all. The
children are much better off here.
I was even thinking we might take
them to the beach house for a few
days. A little fresh air and a
change of scenery might do us all
good.

Anna looks up and stares at her husband, as if she were observing him for the first time.

ANNA
One of these days you're going to have to go in to their school and excuse their absence. They want you to sign some papers. They've called lots of times.

STEVEN
I will. You know what I've been craving? Mashed potatoes. Why don't you make some tomorrow?

ANNA
You've got beautiful hands. I'd never noticed before. Everyone's been telling me lately what beautiful hands you have and now I can see it for myself. Nice and clean. But so what if they're beautiful? They're lifeless. Sometimes, Steven, you're just an incompetent man with hands that don't move who just goes on and on, saying stupid things. "Let's do a scan, let's do a gastroscopy, let's make mashed potatoes, let's wear brown socks, let's go to the beach house."

STEVEN
Excuse me?
 
75.


ANNA
Our two children are dying in their beds but yes, I can make you mashed potatoes tomorrow.

STEVEN
Please don't talk to me that way.

ANNA
If you don't like it why don't you go and live with Martin's mother, I bet she'd talk to you nicer.

Steven does not take the bait.

STEVEN
You wanted the kids to come home and they're home. What else do you want me to do?

ANNA
Do something to put an end to all

this, that's what.

ANNA (CONT’D)
That's what I want. Can you do
that? You do realise Steven that
we've ended up in this situation

because of you?

STEVEN
So what do you suggest? Tell me. Oh, wait, I know, I've got it. There is a way that we can put a stop to all this. All we need to do is find the tooth of a baby crocodile, the blood of a pigeon, and the pubes of a virgin and then we just have to burn them all before sunset. Let me see, do we have any spare teeth lying around?

Steven starts opening cupboards and flinging packets of food onto the floor.

STEVEN (CONT’D)
Teeth, pubes, nope, nothing in
here, or here. Nothing in this box
either. Where are they? I was sure
they were here somewhere. I put
them here myself. Who keeps moving
things around? Unbelievable. I
don't supposed you've got any pubes
I could have, by any chance?
(MORE)
 
76.

STEVEN (CONT’D)
Oh I forgot, you don't have any
left. We don't have any of the
things we need. Well, that's a
shame. I guess there's nothing I

can do.

Steven stalks out of the room.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Steven is setting the alarm clock.

STEVEN
There's no need for us to argue. Everything's so difficult already, there's no point making it worse.

Anna does not respond. She lies down on the bed without covering herself up and turns her back to Steven.

STEVEN (CONT’D)
If he was telling the truth,
wouldn't you be sick too? Wouldn't
you be paralysed already? How do

you explain that?

ANNA
Yes, you're right. Let's wait a bit longer until we're all dead and then we'll see what you can do about it. There's really nothing to worry about.

A short, awkward beat of silence.

ANNA (CONT’D)
Go to the hospital tomorrow and
pick up some feeding formula for

the children. We're almost out.

STEVEN
Okay.

Steven turns to look at his wife. Anna turns out the light. Steven lies beside her in the darkness with his eyes wide open.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Steven is standing in the middle of the room, smoking. He is alone. He sits in an armchair.
 
77.


After a few moments, he stands up again. Taking care not to make any noise, he picks up his car keys and coat and quietly shuts the door.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MORNING

Anna is lying in bed with her eyes open. Steven enters the room. He stands beside her. He sits on the edge of the bed and takes her hand. She does not react.

STEVEN
Good morning.

ANNA
Good morning.

STEVEN
Did you get any sleep?

ANNA
What time is it?

STEVEN
Ten past eight. Get up and come

with me for a moment.

Anna gets up.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - MORNING

Steven and Anna head down to the basement. Steven unlocks the door. They enter a fairly large room full of random garden furniture. It is dark and dirty. The light goes on - a small bulb that faintly illuminates the space - and we see Martin huddled in a corner. He is sitting in an old armchair. His feet are bound together with gaffer tape and he is chained to a pipe in the corner of the room. His hands are tied in front of him. Martin's face is bloodied and swollen. There is a rifle on the table.

Anna looks at Martin and then walks over to the table. She turns to face Steven.

Anna does not move. She looks at Martin. Martin looks up and holds her gaze. It's hard to tell whether he is angry or afraid. He raises his hand and wipes some blood off the side of his mouth.
 
78.


STEVEN
You remember Martin, don't you? He came over for a play date, but I told him the kids are feeling a little unwell, so he'll just have to wait here until they get better. Anna, go upstairs and make me some of that lemonade he likes so much, would you? I'll stay here and keep him company. Off you go.

Anna hesitates and then leaves. She closes the basement door behind her. We hear her footsteps on the stairs.

MARTIN
Let me go. My mother will be

worried sick.

STEVEN
Do you think your mother is proud of you, Martin? Do you think she is happy that her beloved son is a murderer?

MARTIN
Murderer. There's no need for such a dramatic, sensational, old-fashioned word. But if you insist, the murderer, both in my father's case and our current situation, is not me.

STEVEN
Stop talking.

MARTIN
Don't you understand that you're
wasting time? You don't have much

time left.

STEVEN
I said stop talking.

MARTIN
Steven, you'll feel better once
it's done. You can start over, a

clean slate, don't you get it? Sometimes I think you might just be a fool who can't understand the significance of the gift I am offering. Sometimes I think you're naive. But you can't be. You're a good scientist, you can't be an idiot.

(MORE)
 
79.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
If I'd only just met you I'd
seriously question the depth of

your judgement.

Steven strikes the boy across the face. Martin grabs his hand and holds it tight.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

Don't move. I just want to give you an example, that's all. I'll give you one little example so that you understand what I mean.

Martin bites Steven's arm. Blood trickles down his hand.
Steven screams.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
Should I apologise? No. Should I
stroke your wound? No way. That
would probably hurt even more,
touching an open wound. No. There's
only one way to make you and me

both feel better.

Martin bites his own arm and spits out a small piece of flesh. His face is contorted with pain but he doesn't scream. He tries to remain composed.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
Do you understand? It's
metaphorical, my example. A

metaphor. I mean, it's symbolic.


EXT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - GARDEN - MORNING

Anna is scrubbing the blood from the back seat of Steven's car. The dog watches her but she doesn't pay him any attention. We hear a muffled gunshot. The dog starts to bark.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - MORNING

Anna opens the door. Steven has shot Martin in the leg. He is still holding the gun and pointing it at Martin. The boy writhes in agony.

STEVEN
Shut the door, Anna. Now Martin,
you'll see what it's like to die.
What it's like when your head
cracks open and your brains are

blown out.
 
80.


ANNA
Steven, don't shoot him.

MARTIN
And then?

STEVEN
Shut up.

MARTIN
Shoot me. Then what? Answer me.

STEVEN
I'll bury you in the garden and

you'll decompose. That's what.

MARTIN
You won't be able to explain it. You won't understand how it could have happened. You'll say - "But I only killed one person, how come four people are dead? I only shot one." You'll get confused and you'll start counting again: one, two, three. But the numbers still won't add up. If you dig a hole in the garden, better make it a big one.

Steven walks over to Martin and puts the gun to his head. Anna walks up behind Steven and tries to take the gun out of his hands.

At first Steven doesn't let go, but Anna whispers something in his ear and he releases the gun. Anna calmly takes the gun and walks out of the room.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KIM'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Bob is lying in bed. Kim is sitting in a wheelchair, looking out the window. She lights a cigarette and smokes it. She coughs a little. Bob winces in pain.

KIM
Does it hurt?

BOB
No. Just a little.

KIM
Just be patient. Dad's bringing us some painkillers.
 
81.


BOB
I know.

KIM
He didn't kill him.

BOB
How do you know?

KIM
I just do. Anyway, he did the right thing. Otherwise it would have been like killing four people with a single shot. Wouldn't that be tragic? I'm going to live with Martin.

A beat.

KIM (CONT’D)

I want you to know that I'm really sorry, Bob. I really love you. We all do. Dad does too. But he's in a really difficult position and he doesn't have much of a choice. It's not because he doesn't love you.

BOB
They've bought me a piano. Mum told me it'll be here next month. They didn't tell you so you wouldn't get scared.

KIM
Bob, something terrible happened yesterday. I lost the MP3 player that Martin gave me. I don't know what's gotten into me, I've lost two MP3 players in ten days. So I'd like to ask you a favour. Can I have your MP3 player when you're dead? Please. Please. Please.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KIM'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Bob drags himself over to the desk. He struggles to open the drawer and takes out a pair of scissors.
 
82.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Steven gives the dog some food and water and watches him eat. He notices some blood on his hands and goes over to the sink to rinse them. Bob enters the room. He drags himself along the floor. He has cut his own hair. His face and hands are covered in hair. A Levin tube is inserted into his nose and he is holding a bag of feeding solution. The dog starts to bark as soon as he sees Bob. Bob

Look, dad. I cut my hair like you wanted me to.

STEVEN
Good boy, well done.

BOB
I'm sorry I didn't listen to you and get a haircut right away. I don't know what I was thinking all this time. I would get so hot and I had to comb it all the time. It was a total hassle. I should've listened to you and cut it off sooner.

Bob drags himself over to the French windows and tries to open the door.

BOB (CONT’D)

Do you want me to water the plants?

Steven goes to him and hugs him.

STEVEN
No, darling. I watered them this

morning. Tomorrow.

BOB
Dad, I've been thinking about it
and I've decided I want to be a
cardiologist, not an
ophthalmologist. I lied to mum
because I didn't want her to get
upset. I think I prefer what you
do, it's far more interesting and
challenging.

STEVEN
That's true, Bob. But some people
find ophthalmology more

interesting.

BOB
No. Not to me it isn't.
 
83.


INT. - STEVEN'S HOUSE - KIM'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Steven lays his son in his bed. He tucks him in and strokes his hair.


EXT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - GARDEN - NIGHT

Steven is huddled behind some flowers. He is sobbing. Eventually, he pulls himself together, wipes his eyes, and walks towards the house. He closes the French windows and switches off the living room light.


INT. SCHOOL - CORRIDOR - MORNING

Steven is waiting outside the Headmaster's office. The HEADMASTER'S SECRETARY ushers him inside. Steven gets up and enters the office.


INT. SCHOOL - HEADMASTER'S OFFICE - MORNING

Steven is sitting in a chair, signing some papers. He gives them to the HEADMASTER.

HEADMASTER
Sorry for the trouble, dragging you down here. It's all just a formality, but it has to be done.

STEVEN
That's quite all right. I

understand.

HEADMASTER
All the staff and I personally hope that all this is only temporary and that the children will soon be back at school in good health.

STEVEN
Thank you very much. They're already much better now that they're back home. They are having daily physio, we go for walks together every day, they walk slowly of course but they are walking, and they've already started eating properly. However, I must inform you that they will need to be off school for a little while longer.
 
84.


HEADMASTER
Whatever you think is best. If you feel they are not in a position to attend class yet, very well.

HEADMASTER (CONT’D) However, do bear in mind that in cases like this it's generally best for children not to disrupt their daily routine for too long. Attending even some of their classes might do them good. Of course, it's ultimately your decision. All I can do is share my thoughts with you.

STEVEN
Thank you very much. But as you
know both my wife and I are
doctors, and we are quite able to
judge when our children are ready

to return to school.

HEADMASTER
Of course. I hope everything works out well.

STEVEN
I'm very optimistic. Everything

will be fine.

HEADMASTER
That's the spirit.

Steven gets up to go.

STEVEN
Generally speaking, if you had to compare the two children for some reason, which of the two would you consider the better student?

HEADMASTER
Well. The boy is very good at maths and physics. Kim on the other hand, apart from her natural aptitude for music, is pretty good at literature and history, areas in which Bob lags behind. She wrote a brilliant essay on the tragedy of Iphigenia which she read out in class. A+.
 
85.


STEVEN
What about their behaviour in

class?

HEADMASTER
They're both a little restless,
equally so. I mean I've had the
occasional complaint from their
teachers about some minor
misdemeanors, but they've never
been rude to any of the staff.

HEADMASTER (CONT’D)

In any case, if they had ever acted in an inappropriate way we would have informed you about it.

STEVEN
Do you especially like one of them more than the other? If you had to choose between them, which would you say is the best?

HEADMASTER
That's a difficult question. I'm not sure I can give you an answer.

The Headmaster considers his response for a long time. He doesn't know what to say. Steven has put him in an extremely uncomfortable position. Steven stares at the Headmaster intently, as if his response has enormous significance.

HEADMASTER (CONT’D)

I don't know.

He thinks about it some more.

HEADMASTER (CONT’D)

I don't know what to tell you.

STEVEN
Never mind. Have a good day.

HEADMASTER
Goodbye.

Steven leaves the Headmaster's office.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - MORNING

Anna unlocks the door and enters the room, holding Bob in her arms. Kim drags herself along beside them.
 
86.


Anna has brought some gauze and disinfectant to change the wound dressing on Martin's leg. She washes off the dried blood, then kisses both his bare feet. Martin just looks at her. The children watch the procedure from a distance.

MARTIN
Thank you for bringing them down. I really wanted to see them. I really wanted to see you. Hi Kim. Hi Bob. Come over here and let me give you a kiss.

Kim hobbles over to Martin. He kisses her on the lips. Bob doesn't move.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

Bob, aren't you going to come over and give me a kiss? No?

ANNA
Bob?

Bob struggles towards the door.

MARTIN
It doesn't matter, I understand.
You're a man, you are the man of
the house now that your father
isn't home. Now go back to bed.
Don't trouble yourselves any more
for my sake. Take them away.

Anna carries the children out. She leaves the door open. MARTIN (CONT’D)

Anna. If you're going to do something, you need to do it fast. The boy is about to die.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna emerges from the bathroom, wearing her bathrobe. She lies on the bed next to Steven, revealing parts of her naked body. She kisses Steven's hand.

ANNA
You do have beautiful hands.

Steven does not react.
 
87.


ANNA (CONT’D)

Steven, please don't kill me. Deep down I know you won't do that because you love me, but I'm saying this now because you're upset and might make the wrong decision. If you have to kill someone, the logical thing, no matter how harsh this may sound, is to kill a child. Because we can have another child. I still can and so can you. And if you can't, we can try IVF. But I'm sure we can.

Steven says nothing. He switches off the bedside lamp.

STEVEN
Go to sleep.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Martin is lying in a corner of the basement. The key turns in the lock. The door opens and Kim drags herself into the room on all fours.

KIM
They're all asleep. We can go now and nobody will notice. All you have to do is help me walk again. My legs hurt after all this time and I feel weak. But it's okay, it doesn't matter. I knew at some point this would all be over and you would come.

Martin looks at Kim, but doesn't say anything.

KIM (CONT’D)

I thought we could take your friend's motorbike and go away together. But you have to make me well first. Okay? I'll untie you if you promise I'll get better and we can run away. Okay?

Martin continues to stare at her in silence. Kim tries to stand up, but can't.

KIM (CONT’D)
It's not working. I still can't
walk. You have to try harder.

Martin turns his gaze away from Kim.
 
88.


KIM (CONT’D)

Martin, I'm talking to you. Are you deaf? I'm telling you, you have to try harder.

Kim grabs at whatever is in reach and starts throwing random objects at Martin.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

The noise wakes Steven up. He turns on the light and gets out of bed. He rushes out of the bedroom.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KIM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Steven comes in to check on Kim. Her bed is empty. She has removed her feeding tube. Her mobile phone is on the desk. Bob is asleep in the other bed.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Steven and Anna search for Kim all over the house, both indoors and outdoors.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Steven notices the basement door is open. He goes into the basement and looks around. He goes over to Martin and hits him.

STEVEN
Where is she?

MARTIN
She's gone.

STEVEN
Where is she? What did you do to

her?

MARTIN
I didn't touch her. I don't know

where she is.

Steven runs out of the room.
 
89.


EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

Anna is driving very slowly along the road. Steven walks in front of the car. The high beam headlights illuminate the road. They scan the street for any sign of Kim. Steven is anxious, out of breath. He glistens with sweat. They find Kim dragging herself along the pavement. She tries to cross the road. Her hands and knees are covered with blood.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Steven is treating his daughter's wounds. He puts disinfectant on her cuts. He sews up a gash on her knee. Anna, standing beside him, passes Steven the medical instruments.

KIM
I'm sorry for what I did tonight. I don't know what came over me, I don't know what I was thinking. I was only thinking about myself, noone else. That was wrong of me. I was frightened. Terrified. I shouldn't have been. Let me be the one who atones for your sins, Dad. Kill me right here, in front of your eyes so you can be sure that I die, in case some fate spares me at the last moment. Kill me right here in front of you and give me the ultimate joy of saving my own mother and my beloved brother from certain death.

KIM (CONT’D)

A joy that may take the form of death but has none of death's bitterness, of its chill or darkness. Please Dad, take these scissors and do me the honour. Mum, tell him. Dad, please. I would do anything for you, I would even die for you. And I'm ready to prove it. You gave me life and you, only you have the right to take my life away. That makes perfect sense. You are my lords, my masters and I am just someone who lives to obey your wishes. I love you so much, don't forget that. Remember that when I'm in my grave, unable to tell you that I love you.

(MORE)
 
90.

KIM (CONT’D)
I love you more than anything in
the world, you and my brother.

Steven finishes dressing his daughter's wounds. He kisses her almost on the mouth and caresses her. Anna leaves the room, taking the bloodied gauzes and cotton wool with her.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Anna is sitting in a chair. In front of her is a glass of water. She takes a sip and then puts the glass back on the table. Classical music plays from a radio on the kitchen counter. Steven walks into the room.

ANNA
Where have you been?

STEVEN
I went to the hospital. I got the
feeding formula. Have you checked
on him? Did you give him the

sedatives?

ANNA
I let him go.

STEVEN
What are you talking about?

ANNA
He's not downstairs. I let him go.

STEVEN
Why would you do that?

He hits Anna around the head.

STEVEN (CONT’D)
Why did you let him go? Tell me.
Are you a complete idiot?

Anna walks away. The dog follows her. She stops and turns to face Steven.

ANNA
It wouldn't have made any difference, Steven. It wasn't going to solve anything. We both know that.
 
91.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - CHILDREN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna sits on the edge of Bob's bed. She has a washbowl next to her and cleans Bob's limbs with a cloth. She has her back to Kim, who is sitting on her wheelchair beside the bed. Kim is holding her drip. She starts reciting the phrases that her mother has taught her to say when she answers the phone at the clinic.

KIM
Please describe your symptoms. I see. Would you be so kind as to hold the line while I check the doctor's availability? Yes, sorry to keep you waiting. The earliest the doctor can see you is next Thursday. Are mornings or evenings more convenient for you? Mornings are better, I see. Next Thursday at eleven then. We'll be expecting you. Good day. (Pause). Anna Murphy Eye Clinic, how may I help you?

ANNA
Kim, I'm trying to rest. Can you

please be quiet?

KIM
Mum, do you remember when I was
rude to you at the hospital that

day?

ANNA
Yes.

KIM
Did you tell Dad about it?

ANNA
Of course I told him, Kim.

KIM
I didn't mean it, Mum. Maybe it was a side effect of the drugs or something.

ANNA
Kim, please. I'm trying to rest.

KIM
Do your legs hurt? Do they feel
numb? Does your back hurt? Has it

started?
 
92.


Anna gets up and slaps Kim. She wheels her out of the bedroom and closes the door.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MORNING

Anna is asleep. Steven is sitting on the edge of the bed. He stares at the wardrobe for a long time. Then he gets up and goes over to his wife. He stands over her. He looks at her. His gaze is fixed on her. Wondering whether he should kill her or not, whether she should give her life to save the children or not. He takes a step backwards. He looks at her for a few more moments.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - CHILDREN'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Bob is listening to music on his MP3 player. His eyes start to bleed. Blood trickles down onto the pillow. Bob wipes the blood from his face. We hear his sister's voice, but we cannot see her.

KIM
Dad, quick! Bob's dying.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - CHILDREN'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Bob is lying on his bed. Steven wipes the blood from his face and removes the blood-stained pillow case.

BOB
Dad, who's your best friend?

STEVEN
I don't know, Bob.

BOB
Is it Matthew?

STEVEN
Yes, Matthew is a very good friend of mine.

BOB
I have three. Two boys and a girl

from my class.

STEVEN
That's great, Bob. It's good to

have lots of friends.
 
93.


BOB
I think Mum considers Matthew a

very good friend too.

STEVEN
Yes, that's right.

BOB
He used to call Mum a lot. Once he called the house and I picked up and he said: "I'd like to speak to Anna, please." I recognised his voice, but I didn't say: "Hi, Matthew". I just said: "She's not here right now, can I take a message?" He came over to the house one time too when you and Kim were out, so I guess you wouldn't remember.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KIM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Steven undresses Kim. He then dresses her up in the outfit she had chosen to wear to Claire's party. Lying in bed, unable to help with this awkward procedure, Kim avoids her father's gaze. Bob is already dressed up. He sits in his wheelchair, watching them.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Steven enters the bedroom. Anna is frantically making their bed. She doesn't seem to notice him. Steven approaches Anna and stands in front of her. She stops startled.

STEVEN
Bob is bleeding. Come to the living room.

ANNA
Now?

STEVEN
Yes. Now.

ANNA
Steven?

STEVEN
Yes?

ANNA
Where are the children?
 
94.


STEVEN
They're already there.

ANNA
I think I'll wear that black dress you like.

STEVEN
Wear whatever you like. Just hurry.

Steven leaves the room.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Kim is sitting in a chair in a corner of the room. Anna is standing by the wall, near the French windows. Bob is on the sofa. He can barely sit up. They all look terrified. Their feet are tied with rope and their mouths are taped.

Steven is standing in the middle of the room. He looks at each of them in turn. They form a triangle around him. He puts on a black balaclava that covers his entire face, so that he can't see anything. He raises the rifle.

Steven starts spinning round on the spot. He fires a shot. He stops. Silence. The other three are trying to not make a sound. They struggle to stifle their instinctive reactions. He hasn't hit anyone. The bullet has lodged itself in a cabinet full of crystal tableware.

Steven starts spinning around again. He fires another shot. Anna screams. Steven pulls off the balaclava. He sees Bob, hit in the chest. Motionless. Blood is splattered across the couch. Kim stares, frozen. Steven puts down his rifle.


INT. BURGER KING - DAY

Steven is sitting in a Burger King with Anna and Kim. Martin walks in, limping from the bullet wound. He stares at them as he walks past and sits at a table nearby. Steven and Anna watch Martin out of the corner of their eye. They both look haggard. Kim puts ketchup on her chips and starts wolfing them down. She looks healthy. Her parents watch her eat. When Kim has finished eating her chips, they put on their jackets and go to leave. Kim stands up, takes a quick look at Martin and then follows her parents. She is walking normally.
 


THE END
