EXT. FURTHER INTO THE FOREST - NIGHT

He stumbles through the woods, following the burbling sounds of the stream as he looks for his horse.

He clutches his arms around himself for warmth, the axe clutched under his arm. His hand is tied with what once was his gag. He's spilt blood all over himself.

The night that has fallen is dark and wet and cold.
 
35.

The trees loom like dark shadows around him.

He hears twigs snapping and the occasional growl.

A mist rises from the ground, lit by the light from an invisible moon.

Gawain suddenly freezes. Every hair on his body standing straight up. For a moment, he hears a WOMAN'S VOICE. Humming a melody. But then that melody segues into the wind, which is probably what it was in the first place.


EXT. SPRING - NIGHT

The stream leads him to a clearing, and large SPRING, bubbling up out of the ground.

He crouches down to take a drink. As he ladles the water into his mouth, he notices...

...a HOUSE, reflected in the water.

He looks up. On the opposite side of the spring, half-hidden in the mist, is an old MANOR. It is dark. No lights burning in the windows. It seems deserted.

PART FOUR: SAINT WINIFRED


INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

A knock - and then the door swings open and Gawain enters.

The house is completely dark. Cobwebs in the corners. The night mist drifts through the open windows and hangs about the floors and corners.

There is a table by the hearth. On it are moldy simulacrums of what used to be bread and fruit.

Gawain picks up a hunk of bread and it crumbles to dust in his hand.

A DOOR creaks open, on its own accord. Gawain whirls around, expecting to see someone, but instead only sees a deeper darkness.

He walks through it, deeper into a house.

There is a staircase leading up to the second floor. Slowly, Gawain climbs it. The floors creak ominously with every step.

He makes it to the top.
 
36.

There's a bedroom at the end of the hall.

He stands in the doorway, peering in, letting his eyes adjust to the darkness until he can see the four-posted bed within. It is made up, seemingly untouched. There are blankets and sheets atop it.

He goes to it and presses down on the mattress. A tuft of dust rises. It's been ages since whomever made this bed abandoned it.

He sits down on the bed, and a great weariness descends upon him.


INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

He is sound asleep in the bed. Wrapped up in the quilts.

A light crosses him. A gentle glow.

His eyes gradually open. And then he jumps up with a start to see...

A WOMAN is in bed next to him. She is sitting up, looking down at him. Her face is completely, almost unnaturally obscured by shadow.

Her presence chills Gawain to the bone.

WINFRED

What are you doing in my bed?

She speaks in a whisper, but in this quiet room a whisper sounds like a shout. Gawain jumps up, embarrassed.

GAWAIN
I am very sorry. I didn't - I
didn't see you, I thought there
was no one about.

WINIFRED

Did my father send for you?

GAWAIN
No. No my lady, he did not. I do
not know your father and I do not
know you and I am sorry for having
offended you. I am leaving. I will
be on my way.

He hops up in a hurry, reaching for his shift. He hurries past her, to the hall, but as he gets to the door...
 
37.

WINIFRED

Wait.

He stops and turns around. He gets a better look at her, there in bed, with her nightgown on, but her face is still masked by shadows.

WINIFRED (cont'd)

Are you a knight?

GAWAIN

...Not yet.

She regards him for a moment, and then motions.

WINIFRED

Will you help me, before you go?

GAWAIN

With what?


EXT. SPRING - DAY

She leads him out of the house, to the foot of the spring. Always staying just far enough away from him that he never gets a good look at her face.

WINIFRED
There is something of mine at the
bottom of this spring. I cannot
get at it.

GAWAIN

What is it?

WINIFRED

It is my head.

GAWAIN
Your head is on your neck, my
lady.

WINIFRED
No. Caradogg cut it off. I would
not lay with him and so he
beheaded me and threw it in the
spring and now I cannot get at it.

GAWAIN
...are you real, or are you a
spirit?
 
38.

WINIFRED
What is the difference? I just
need my head.

GAWAIN
As will I before the year is out.
You don't by chance know of a
Green Chapel?

WINIFRED

There are many chapels.

GAWAIN
The one I seek is green, just like
the knight who resides within it.

WINIFRED

I have not seen it, or him.

GAWAIN

How can you, without your head.

WINIFRED

Yes.

Beat.

GAWAIN
Well. I mustn't tarry. I am sorry
I bothered you.

WINIFRED
Wait. Please help me.
(beat)
If you were a knight, you would
help me.

GAWAIN

What will give me in return?

WINIFRED
Why on earth would you ask me
that?

Good question, to which Gawain doesn't have a suitable answer.

He looks back at the dark water.


INT. UNDERWATER - MOMENTS LATER

With a great splash, he dives into the spring.

The water is dark. The moonlight dies as soon as he's below the surface, and he's left to feel around in the murk and the mud at the bottom of the spring.
 
39.

He takes a moment to surface, catch his breath, and then dive under again.

This time, his fingers find something.

A HUMAN SKULL.


EXT. SPRING - CONTINUOUS

He rises from the spring with the skull in his hand, holding it triumphantly up in the air...

...but the lady is gone.

The mist that surrounded the house is gone. The first signs of dawn are appearing on the horizon. The sky is turning blue. The house is just a house now. Its eerie qualities falling away with the night.

Gawain clambers out of the water and looks about. There's not a sign of the woman.

But the RED FOX is there. Watching him from the opposite side of the pool.

GAWAIN

You again.

He looks at it for a moment, almost as if waiting for it to speak.

GAWAIN (cont'd)

Where did she go?

The fox tilts its head, and then scampers off.

Gawain returns to the house.


INT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

He climbs the stairs and returns to the bedroom...

GAWAIN

My lady?

He steps through the doors and then gasps in shock...

...for in the bed he beholds SKELETON, wearing the decayed remnants of the same dress the woman was wearing.

It is missing its head.
 
40.

After recovering from his shock, Gawain looks at the damp skull in his hand - and then gingerly places it upon the pillow, resting just above the skeleton's neck.

Nothing happens. The bones just lay there.

Out the window, the sun breaks the horizon and spills its light over the remains.

INTERLUDE: A SHORTCUT


EXT. HILLS - DAY

Gawain has taken the quilt from the bed and fashioned a crude cloak from it.

Now he marches on, quilt billowing behind him, axe slung over his shoulder. The grade is getting steeper, the terrain rougher. He is coming to the mountains.


EXT. MOUNTAIN PASS - DAY

And how he's in them. He crosses a steep pass - sheer wall above, a precipitous pass below. He only has a foot or so of solid ground, and that ground consistently seems ready to give way.


INT. CAVE - NIGHT

He's curled up in the corner of a cave, trying to start a fire with two sticks.

He doesn't notice the cave paintings on the wall behind him. Simple cryptograms depicting a hunt that ends with the animals winning.

He hears a sound. There, at the mouth of the cave, is that RED FOX.

GAWAIN

Are you following me?

He grabs a rock and chucks it at the fox. The poor animal runs away, but then returns, not quite deterred.

GAWAIN (cont'd)

Well, come on in if you want.

The fox seems to understand. It hesitates...

...and then gratefully curls up at the mouth of the cave.
 
41.

EXT. MOUNTAIN VALLEY - DAY

Now the fox walks alongside him. They're in a valley between two mountains now - the one he just descended and another, rising up miles in the distance.

Suddenly, the ground begins to tremble. Distant, percussive thunderclaps give way to more violent rumbles.

He sees...

GIANTS. Dozens of them. Each at least ten stories tall. Winding out from behind one mountain, walking single file across the valley, heads hung low. They disappear into the wintry mist in the distance.

Their exodus makes for a stunning sight, and Gawain pauses to watch.

Then an idea occurs to him. He sets out after them. Weaving through their footsteps. When he's close enough to one, he looks up and shouts:

GAWAIN

Hey! Hey, down here!

The giant swings its great head in his direction.

GAWAIN (cont'd)
I'm headed in the same direction.
Might I ride across the valley on
your shoulder?

The giant regards him with cold, sad eyes, but says nothing. After a moment's contemplation, he turns and continues on his way.

Gawain sighs, waits a moment more, and then continues on foot as the giants thunder on without him. The fox continues after him.

They cross through the valley, making their way around the deep recesses left by the giant's footprints.

The muddy footprints give way to low ground...water bubbling up from the depth of the earth...


EXT. BOG - DAY

OVERHEAD. They cross a bog, sticking to the ridges of mostly solid ground.
 
42.

Scattered all around, beneath the water's surface, are the splayed bodies of those who've been lost beneath the surface. Gawain can't see them from his vantage point, but we can. And they are numerous. The further he goes, the more there are.


EXT. ROCKY DESERT - EVENING

The bog gives way to a desert, at the foot of the opposing mountain. Rock shards pile up around in great mounds.

Everything is cast in the same vibrant shade of red as the sun sets, bleeding the rocks and the sand.


EXT. GULLY - NIGHT

Gawain settles down for the night in a rocky gully, under a single tree. The fox keeps perches on high, almost like it's keeping a lookout.

GAWAIN

Any idea where we are?

The fox doesn't respond. It's fur ripples in the wind.

Gawain hungrily picks lichen from the tree trunk and wolfs it down. Then a piece of bark.

Then he leans back and looks up into the sky.

Just before he drifts off to sleep, A SHOOTING STAR streaks across the sky. He points at it...

...and it stops.

He moves his hand, and it reverses its course, until its vanished in the sky again.

Then he lets it go, and it continues on its way and vanishes.

THUNDER crackles overhead.


INT. GULLY - NIGHT

He wakes up to find that the gully has become a rushing river. He clings to the tree to keep from being washed away. The fox yips from above, beckoning him to higher ground.


EXT. LOW DESERT / CHATEAU - NIGHT

Gawain follows the fox.
 
43.

He is tired, hungry, freezing and scarcely able to carry the axe. He staggers through a torrential downpour. The rain falls in sheets and buckets. It is like walking through a waterfall. Hard enough to breath, much less hike.

But then, up ahead, he sees a LIGHT flickering through rain.

Getting closer, he makes out the shape of CHATEAU.

It is tall and narrow, tucked into the nook of the hills. Its many spires look like fir trees poking out from the side of a mountain.

The fox stops. It will go no further. Gawain scarcely notices. He marches hurriedly towards the castle, towards warmth. The time for caution is long gone.

He walks across the long, thin BRIDGE, over a dark moat, into a COURTYARD...


INT. COURTYARD - CONTINUOUS

He stops there, looking at the castle with its warmly lit windows beyond.

The castle doors are tall and narrow. Gawain stumbles up to it, sets the axe down and slams desperately on the brass knocker.

After a moment, a slotted port opens in the door, and a CONCIERGE peers out.

CONCIERGE

Yes?

GAWAIN
Please. I am lost. Could you or
your master spare a place to rest,
out of the cold?

The Concierge looks at him for a moment more, and then slams the port shut.

Gawain shivers, clutching his arms around himself.

After a few moments, the sound of heavy clockwork turning rings out from behind the door. It is being UNLOCKED. And sure enough, a moment later, the door SWINGS OPEN. Beyond the door is a long hallway, lit with torches.

Gawain staggers in, dragging the axe behind him. He is too tired and cold and weak to lift it.

A booming voice echoes from the end of the hall.
 
44.

LORD

Friend! Welcome!

At the end of the hall he espies a huge GRIZZLY BEAR with its arms outstretched in greeting, walking towards him.

Gawain takes a few more steps and then collapses, shaking with cold and fever.

CUT TO BLACK

PART FIVE: THE LADY'S GIFT


INT. BEDCHAMBER - MORNING

Two hands place a cool rag on Gawain's forehead. He has been washed and dressed in clean bedclothes, and is tucked beneath the covers of a fine bed in a well-lit room.

He awakens to see a NURSE sitting by his bedside, and a cluster of servants beyond. They are all clad in uniform white. They all whisper to each other as they notice him coming to his senses.

GAWAIN

What day is it?

NURSE

What?

GAWAIN

What day is it?

NURSE

It is the 21st of December.

That booming voice rings out from the other side of the room.

LORD
Fear not, Sir Gawain. You've only
slept through the night.

Gawain turns, surprised to hear his own name. He sees what he had mistaken in his delirium for a bear - it is in fact a man, a very large man with many bearish qualities, including a long coiffed beard and laughter in his eyes. He is the LORD of this castle, and he has been sitting in repose by Gawain's sick bed, smoking a pipe.

GAWAIN

How do you know my name?

He chuckles.
 
45.

LORD
I know more than your name. I know
where you came from, and where you
are going.

That gets Gawain's attention, but before he can inquire further, the Lord leans closer, pointing his pipestem at his emaciated guest.

LORD (cont'd)

You need to eat.


INT. DINING HALL - MORNING

The Lord leads him down the corridors. There are crates and boxes everywhere. Servants are taking the tapestries from the wall.

The Lord seems utterly thrilled to have company.

LORD
Came you one week hence, you would
have found an empty home. Upon the
New Year my Lady and I voyage to
the East. Our time in this land is
coming to an end. You shall see us
out! But first, today, I shall
hunt.

He throws open the doors to the dining room with gusto. Within, a fire roars on the hearth and a long table is bedecked with various breakfasty stuffs.

Sitting at the head of the table, next to the Lord's empty chair, is the LADY. Gawain nearly stops in his tracks at the sight of her - she is the most radiant woman he's ever seen.

Sitting at her side is an old creature who look to be at least 100 years old. The Lord's mother perhaps? Or grandmother? Her eyes are wrapped in a blindfold, but even without them, her gaze seems fixed on Gawain from the moment he walks through the door.

LORD (cont'd)
Here is our friend, my lady, fresh
from his slumbers. And here,
friend, is your breakfast, to
replenish your strength. Surely
you will need it.

GAWAIN

Why is that?
 
46.

LORD
Why - because you are brave Sir
Gawain. Come to face the Green
Knight.

He stares Gawain in the eye, and his face suddenly grows serious.

LORD (cont'd)

I daresay every table in the land has heard of you and sung your song, not just this one. Go on, eat.

GAWAIN
Perhaps you think that I am
something I'm not.

LORD

Such as what?

GAWAIN
Such as...a knight. I am Gawain
only, no Sir.

LORD

Hmmm. I don't know that I believe you. Who but a knight would ride so far of his own volition to look death in the eye and submit to it? Should we put your nobility to the test?

GAWAIN
You may if you like, only...why
would I lie?

LORD

A fair point.

LADY

How long will you stay with us?

GAWAIN

Not long. I must make my appointment by Christmas. I will eat and give thanks and then take my leave...

LORD
Oh, but don't you know? The Green
Chapel is not far.
 
47.

GAWAIN

You know of it?

LORD
You are very nearly there! It is
down the river not three miles.
Here is what will happen: on
Christmas Morn we will send you on
your way, and before nightfall you
will be at the doorway of your
destiny. So stay a while. Rest.
Make yourself content.

GAWAIN

You're certain it is that close?

LORD
Hmmmm. Your journey is at an end,
Gawain. Sooner than you expected,
perhaps. But such is the case for
us all.

He raises his goblet, and then drinks from it before anyone has a chance to reciprocate his toast.

Gawain takes a potato from a dish and breaks it apart in his hands.

The Lady hands him a fork. He takes it, bashfully.


EXT. COURTYARD - DAY

The Lord prepares his bow, pulling the string as his servants prepare the hounds. The hunting party is six strong, but the others are clearly merely there for support. This Strapping Lord will be doing all the work.


EXT. CASTLE WINDOW - DAY

Gawain watches from a high window as the happy hunters ride off.


INT. CASTLE - DAY

Gawain wanders through the castle. Everywhere, things are being packed up. He passes a tapestry being taken from the wall.

INT. LIBRARY - DAY

He comes to a library.
 
48.

There are servants taking the books and scrolls and maps and parchments from the shelves, putting them in crates.

He starts to page through old volumes. They are of the illuminated variety, written by hand.

Then he picks up one that seems different.

It is a PHOTOGRAPH ALBUM. Full of black and white prints of the Lord, his castle, the landscape, various other knights and nobles.

Gawain flips through the pages, increasingly unsettled...

...until he comes to a slightly blurry photo of THE LADY. She was caught in motion in the photo, head turning, and only one eye is in focus, but that one eye is peering right at him.

He slams the book shut and throws it down on the table, as far away as he can manage.

But then curiosity gets the better of him, and he returns to it, lifting it once more.

LADY

What did you find?

He whirls around and sees the Lady herself, standing in the doorway. The Old Woman is beside her.

GAWAIN

These are very strange paintings.

LADY

Are they?

GAWAIN

They make me feel queer.

LADY

Then don't look upon them.

She wanders past him, taking the book from his hands and closing it tight. The Old Woman remains in the doorway.

GAWAIN
I didn't know so many books even
existed. Have you read them all?

LADY
Yes. Some of them many times over.
Do you want one? Why don't you
take one with you?
 
49.

GAWAIN

I couldn't.

LADY
But it is nearly Christmas. Here.
This one is for you.

She finds a small volume, bound in what looks to be tanned skin, and hands it to him.

He does not move to take it.

So she takes his hand and presses it into his. Holding his hand in hers for longer than feels necessary.

Then she withdraws, just a little.

LADY (cont'd)
Should not a Knight offer a Lady a
kiss in thanks?

Gawain hesitates.

She turns her cheek.

He leans forward and kisses her on the cheek.

She smiles, and departs.

He gently opens the book and looks within. It is full of tiny, intricate lines of hand-lettered text, so densely packed on the page that it almost feels impossible read.


INT. DUNGEON - DAY

Gawain stands against a stone wall, under a shaft of light from the opening of an oubliette.

In front of him is a monolithic iron plate - the size of a great door - with a PINHOLE cut into it.

The lady is on the other side, blocking the pinhole with her hand.

LADY

Are you ready? Hold very still...

She moves her hand. A beam of sunlight bursts through the pinhole, and Gawain's image is refracted with it. A a CAMERA OBSCURA effect. His image is projected, inverted...

...onto a piece of PARCHMENT mounted on the opposite wall, which glistens with dewy moisture.
 
50.

After a moment, the lady covers the hole again.

The blurry, upside-down image of Gawain gradually appears on the parchment. Developing slowly, like a ghost.

Over all of this, we've heard a poem being read, and now we CUT TO...


INT. CASTLE - LATER

Gawain sits by a window, trying to read the book the Lady gave him. He traces each line slowly with a finger. His lips move as he reads. The text is in Middle English and he read it as such.

GAWAIN
Ant love is to myn herte gon With
one spere so kene, Nyht ant day my
blod hit drynkes Myn herte deth me
tene.

The sound of hooves thunder through the window. The hunting party is returning.


INT.	COURTYARD - EVENING

The Lord returns, carrying a massive DEAD ELK across his shoulders. The arrow is still protruding from its side.

LORD
Gawain! Look at what I have
brought you!

He heaves it to the ground in front of Gawain. It hits with a sickening thud.

LORD (cont'd)
When I dispatched of him I thought

-	what a gift! What a gift for my new friend.

GAWAIN

What shall I do with it?

LORD

Take it for your journey.

GAWAIN

I thought you said it was not far.

LORD
I mean your journey home.
(MORE)
 
51.

LORD (CONT’D)
(beat)
And what of you? What did the day
bring to you?

GAWAIN

...Nothing.

LORD

Nothing at all?

GAWAIN

Only a poem.

LORD
Well. That is something. Read it
to me later.

He claps Gawain on the shoulder.


INT. DINING HALL - NIGHT

Gawain and the Lord sit by a roaring fire, both holding steins of hot meade. It is just the two of them. The book of poems sits on the floor by Gawain's chair.

LORD

Let us make a promise to each other. I hunt tomorrow, and the day after. Whatever the forest offers me, I will bring you home the best. And you - you give me in turn whatever you might receive here.

GAWAIN
What might I receive here that is
not already yours?

LORD

Who knows? This house is full of mysteries. I will be happy to leave it. I see things here that I cannot comprehend. But then again, I see things everywhere that bear no logic. Have you ever seen a hawk kill a horse?

LORD (cont'd)
Just swoop down and...it's
something everyone ought to see,
terrible as it is. It defies all
rules of the natural world.
(MORE)
 
52.

LORD (cont'd) (CONT’D)
(beat)
But that is the world, and the
world is fit for all manner of
mysteries. A man's home, though,
should be safe from that. One
wall, joined to another, line and
plumb. Good strong walls. A fire
within.

Gawain nods. His mind is on other things.


INT. HALL - NIGHT

Gawain makes his way to his chambers.

The Lady, along with the ever-present Old Woman, turn a corner at the end of the hall. They exchange a look...and then Gawain slips into his chambers.


INT. BEDCHAMBER - MORNING

Gawain awakens to the sound of hooves departing. The hunt is already on.


EXT. COURTYARD - DAY

The day is blisteringly cold.

Gawain has a sword out. He is practicing fencing moves across the courtyard, as a procession of servants load crates and baskets and boxes onto carts and wagons in the background.

He makes his way to and fro, working up a sweat. When he finally stops, he notices the Lady watching him.


EXT. WELL - DAY

He sits on the edge of a well as she ladles water from a bucket with a gourd. She takes a sip and then hands it to him. He gulps it down.

LADY

Did you like the poem?

GAWAIN

I tried to.

LADY

Do you even know how to read?
 
53.

GAWAIN
Of course I do. Do I look like I
don't?

She shrugs as if to say: maybe.

LADY
Tell me something. If you are a
knight, and a knight is chivalrous
above all else, and the chiefmost
aspect of chivalry is loyalty in
love, and my husband is away, why
would you twice now so willingly
sit by my side?

GAWAIN

I am no knight.

LADY
So you say. Do you have a bride?
Back home where you come from?

GAWAIN

No. Maybe someday.

LADY

A lady?

GAWAIN

Yes. Well...yes.

LADY

So you do know something of love.

GAWAIN
A little. Surely you know more of
love than me. Than a hundred of
me.

LADY
A hundred of you. What a scourge
upon the land that would be. Come
here.

She takes his face in both hands. With her thumb she casually wipes the water from his lips. She turns his head to the left, then to the right, as if inspecting him.

Then she leans forward and plants a kiss on his lips.

It's not just a peck on the lips, either. It is a full on kiss. He's too surprised to reciprocate at first, but then he gives in, and just as he opens his mouth to hers..
 
54.

...she pulls away. Grabbing his hand, holding it to her breast, to her heart for a moment, and then letting him go.

He looks away, unexpectedly ashamed.

LADY (cont'd)
It is too cold out here. Come
inside with me.

GAWAIN

Alright.

She leaves. He waits.


INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

He makes his way down the corridor, to the room he knows is hers.

He paces outside, frustrated...unsure of what to do...

Finally he retreats to HIS ROOM and throws himself down upon the bed.


EXT. COURTYARD - EVENING

Evening has fallen. The Lord has returned once more.

LORD
Do you have any idea what this
beast is? Because I haven't the
faintest.

Gawain looks upon the hunt's spoils - a giant creature splayed open upon a spit made from an entire tree. It looks like it might have been a boar, except that it is larger than a horse.

LORD (cont'd)
And what about you - do you have
anything to give me in recompense?

GAWAIN

No.

LORD

Nothing at all?

Gawain blushes.

LORD (cont'd)

Your cheeks are red.
 
55.

GAWAIN

That's the cold.

LORD
(playfully)
No. You have something. I can
tell. You have it and I think...I
think I can take it from you.

GAWAIN

I promise you -

The Lord grabs Gawain by the back of the head and pulls him forward and KISSES HIM on the mouth.

After a moment, he releases him with a smile. Gawain sputters in surprise.

LORD
That's more like it. Remember our
terms. You must play fair.

The Lord looks to the doorway, where his Lady is waiting. She has seen this transaction. Gawain sees her too, and glances back and forth betwixt his hosts, wondering just what is afoot and how much the other knows. But the Lord's happy mood seems undeterred.

Music starts up...


INT. DINING HALL - NIGHT

Dinner is over. One of the female servants is playing a song on a harp. The Lord leans back, enjoying the gentle music.

LORD

Tomorrow is Christmas Eve.

Gawain doesn't respond. He is all too aware of this.

LORD (cont'd)

It will be a good day.

The Lord looks at his guest, waiting for him to nod in agreement. Which he finally does.

LORD (cont'd)
And the next day will be even
better.
(beat)
Are you afraid? Of what might
come?
 
56.

GAWAIN

Resigned, more like.

LORD

I wonder which is better.

LADY
What about hope? Have you left a
little room for that?

GAWAIN

Do I see myself sitting here a week from now telling you the tale of my encounter with the Green Knight? Yes - yes, I do. But when I think of the contents of that tale, that light goes out.

The Lord takes Gawain's hand.

LORD

Would you like me to face him with you? I will, if you would like it.

GAWAIN

Would you?

LORD

Say the words.

Gawain bites his lip, thinking it over.

GAWAIN
Let me see where I stand tomorrow.
But I thank you for the offer.

They turn back to the music performance. After a moment, the Lord stands and offers his hand to his Lady, who takes it and rises. They begin to dance.

Gawain watches them.


EXT. COURTYARD - DAWN

Christmas Eve has come, and with it the snow. Big fat flakes fill the air, blanketing the ground and the castle alike in frozen white down.

The Lord, wrapped in a heavy fur coat, saddles up once more with his hunting party. Before he goes, he looks up at one window, where the curtains are still closed.
 
57.

INT. BEDCHAMBER - MORNING

Those curtains are suddenly drawn. The morning light is all the brighter with the snow, and it draws Gawain from his slumber. He opens his eyes to see the Lady standing before the window. Her robe seems ready to slip off her shoulders, bound only by a beautifully embroidered ribbon-like girdle around her waist. It is inset with tiny green gems, much like the Knight's Axe.

Through the castle window, she sees the hunting party riding off into the distance. When they're no more than dots on the horizon, she turns back to Gawain.

GAWAIN

My lady...

LADY

Shhhh.

He begins to rise but she doesn't let him. She pushes him back down against the bed and sits down beside him, leaning in close, pinning his arms down. He thinks she is coming in for another kiss but she does not. She leans in closely enough, practically whispering into his mouth, her body grazing his...

LADY (cont'd)
Why did you not come to my
chambers yesterday?

GAWAIN

I couldn't.

LADY

You couldn't.

GAWAIN

No, but -

LADY

- you wanted to.

GAWAIN

...Yes.

LADY

And now?

GAWAIN

I would that I could but -

LADY

But...
 
58.

GAWAIN

It isn't right.

LADY

Isn't right.

GAWAIN

No.

She nods, accepting this.

LADY

Do you believe in witchcraft?

GAWAIN

What?

LADY

In magic. Do you believe in it?

GAWAIN

Yes. I do. It is all around us.

LADY

Then I have a gift for you...

She takes his hand and moves it down to the girdle around her waist.

LADY (cont'd)

This. There is an enchantment sewn into its threads. Wear it and you will never be struck down.

GAWAIN

By what?

LADY

By man or his implements. You will not come to harm.

GAWAIN

Do you mean it?

LADY

Yes. Do you want it?

Gawain is too breathless to respond.

LADY (cont'd)

Do you want it?

GAWAIN

Yes.
 
59.

LADY

Tell me.

GAWAIN

...I want it.

LADY

Then take it.

He pulls the belt from her waist. Her robe falls open the rest of the way, and he almost immediately comes, quickly jerking away from her, rolling over to his side, ejaculating all over the girdle.

The Lady watches his shoulders heave as he catches his breath. She then lays down next to him, leaning her head against her hand.

LADY (cont'd)
Will you share with my husband
what you've gained today?

Gawain doesn't answer. He just looks up at the door...

...where he sees the OLD WOMAN watching.

He instantly springs up. Grabbing for his trousers and his boots, getting dressed as quickly as he can.

The Lady just watches him from the bed.

The stained girdle is laying on the bed. He looks at it for a moment, and then grabs it.

He ties it around his waist, and then grabs the quilt-cloak and throws it over his shoulders.

Lastly he grabs his AXE, and then makes haste out of the room, pushing past the old woman.


INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

He hurries down the corridor. The servants turn and watch him leave.


INT. BEDCHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

The Lady sits up pulling her robe back around herself.

Then she goes to the window and waits...

...for him to appear down below, CROSSING THE COURTYARD towards the outer walls and the drawbridge.
 
60.

EXT. DRAWBRIDGE - DAY

Gawain, wrapped in his cloak now, crosses the bridge in a hurry. It is still snowing, although not as heavily as before.

INT. WOODS - DAY

He makes his way into the woods now. The shift from rocky steppes to woods is swift and sudden.

His feet sink deep into the snow. He stumbles down an embankment, looking for the low ground where he might find the river.

As he makes his way, a VOICE CALLS OUT...

LORD

Sir Gawain!

He turns and sees...

THE LORD, astride his steed. A few members of his hunting party lag behind him.

LORD (cont'd)

Where are you going?

GAWAIN
...I could not wait. I am off to
find the Green Knight.

LORD

Alone?

GAWAIN

Yes!

LORD

But it's only Christmas Eve!

GAWAIN
I fear your hospitality will be
too hard to leave.

LORD

So you go without even a goodbye?

GAWAIN

Forgive me, but I -

LORD

Wait.

He beckons to his servants, who bring forth a wooden cage.
 
61.

LORD (cont'd)
This fine fellow was all I found
this morning, and I hadn't the
heart to kill him. So here...one
final gift.

They set the cage in the snow, between the Lord and Gawain. Inside is a BRIGHT RED FOX. The same one, it seems, that has been following Gawain.

GAWAIN

I've nothing to offer in exchange.

LORD

Are you certain?

GAWAIN

Yes.

The Lord shrugs.

LORD

And so we end our game. Merry Christmas, Sir Gawain. If you pass back by this way - well, we shall be gone. I wish you luck.

The Lord turns his horse. His servants follow.

Gawain watches them go, riding off into the trees.

Soon it is just he and the fox in the cage.

The Fox stares him at him through the slats of the cage, panting lightly, awaiting its fate.

Gawain meets its gaze.

After a moment, he strides forward and lifts the latch on the gate.

The Fox takes a tentative step out into the snow.

It sniffs the air, picking up Gawain's scent.

GAWAIN

Go on. On your way.

The Fox just stands there, looking at him.
 
62.

EXT. WOODS / RIVER - LATER

Gawain tromps along the banks of the river now, which is frozen solid. The Fox trots along dutifully behind him. Their breath rises in front of them, almost

Gawain casts an eye back now and then, just to see if the animal is still there.

He stops for a moment, and so does the Fox. They regard one another, and then Gawain moves on. So does the Fox.

GAWAIN

I guess it's the two of us then.

FOX

Yes.

That makes Gawain stop again. He whirl around to see who spoke. The Fox looks around too, as if to see what else Gawain might be staring at, but of course nothing else is there.

GAWAIN

Did you just speak?

The fox offers a short, shrill bark in response.

Gawain shakes his head, convinced he is losing his mind, and resumes his march.


EXT. GREEN WOODS - CONTINUOUS

The frozen river narrows, and the ice grows thin. Up ahead, the sounds of a rushing stream can be heard. Rocks poke up through the snow, and the trees get thicker and stranger, their bark soft and verdant. Moss covers everything. The snow white forest is turning green.

The Fox suddenly stops in its tracks. Its ears go back, its hair stands up. It GROWLS, and then runs past Gawain. It comes to a stop between two trees that form a natural sort of gate. It GROWLS again, bristling its teeth into the forest ahead.

GAWAIN

What? What is it?

The Fox turns back to him as Gawain approaches it, and effectively blocks his path.

Gawain tries to move forward, but the Fox stands its ground in the trail. It whines and tosses its head.
 
63.

Gawain loses his patience and is about to step off the path so as to circumvent the obstreperous animal. The Fox barks at him again, a sharp retort.

GAWAIN (cont'd)

Why do you stop me?

The Fox paws at the snow, and lowers its head in submission.

GAWAIN (cont'd)

I cannot tarry.

FOX
Go that way and your doom is at
hand.

This time there is no mistaking it. The Fox is talking to him with a calm, stern voice.

FOX (cont'd)
You will find no mercy. No happy
end.

GAWAIN

What witchcraft is this?

FOX
No witchcraft. Only nature, to
which we all bend. He you seek is
as wild as I, but knows no
measure.

GAWAIN

I know what I face.

FOX
If any man truly knew, he would
bear his shame happily and turn
away, head held high, to end his
song in falsehood as he saw fit.

FOX (cont'd)
His secret would be safe with me.
Are you this man?

GAWAIN

....No.

FOX
The spell about your waist says
otherwise.

Gawain instinctively touches the girdle at his waist.
 
64.

GAWAIN

This? This is just a dirty rag.

FOX

Leave it here then.

GAWAIN

It was a gift.

FOX
No need for gifts where you are
headed.

Gawain touches the girdle for a moment, fingering its threads...

...and then he suddenly LUNGES at the Fox with the Green Knight's axe, slamming it down where the little animal stands. The fox easily darts away, dodging the blow, and the axe sinks into the frost and the dirt. He yanks it up again and swings it towards the Fox once more, this time losing his balance as its weight gets the better of him. He slips to the ground.

The fox yelps at him once, then twice, its speaking voice gone. It regards him pitifully for a moment, then turns and scampers away.

GAWAIN
(shouting after it)
I never asked for your company
anyway!

He sits there for a moment, at a loss.

He picks himself up and continues on.

He passes through the two trees. The ground drops down in a steep decline.

Then, all at once, he sees it. Up ahead, where the creek terminates, lies...

PART SIX: A BEHEADING AT THE GREEN CHAPEL


EXT. GREEN CHAPEL - CONTINUOUS

The chapel is huge.

Its vaulted facade towers above Gawain, its open doors gape open. It gives the impression of a chapel, although there is no cross at its peak, no sign of devotion to anything but nature.
 
65.

It looks accidental, as if a cascade of tree limbs and stones fell into the vertices of this valley and landed just so, by chance, settling into this recognizable form over the centuries.

Gawain fords the icy creek and up the stony steps, towards the yawning entry.


INT. GREEN CHAPEL - CONTINUOUS

The creek runs through the chapel, down the center, towards the slab of stone at the front that resembles an altar. The cavernous space resounds with the slow drip of water from above, the soft gurgle from below.

Gawain makes his way towards the altar, and it only as he gets closer that he realizes that THE GREEN KNIGHT is there already.

He is embedded in the wall like some unholy frieze above the altar, where a crucifix normally would be. His head hangs slack, his eyes are shut and from his gaping mouth there are winter flowers growing.

Gawain steps up to the altar, keeping his eyes raised up to the Knight. He takes the Axe in both hands and sets it down upon the altar.

Then he steps back and waits.

The Knight doesn't move.

Gawain sits down upon the ground, cross-legged.

The light coming through the ruined ceiling shifts as the day moves on.


INT. GREEN CHAPEL - NIGHT

Night has fallen. An owl hoots somewhere. Gawain remains seated. The Knight is still frozen.

For a moment, the darkness, the Knight's face is no longer the Knight's at all.

It is the Lord's.

It continues to shift in this flickering light.

The Lord the Lady.

And then St. Winifred.

And then the Sharecropper's Wife.
 
66.

And then the Witch.

And then the Queen.

And then, at last his Mother.

It shifts imperceptibly between these visages - and then, for a second, it is Gawain's own face that he sees.

Then the darkness ceases to play its tricks and all was as it was before.


INT. GREEN CHAPEL - MORNING

The sun rises.

The first light of day creeps through the roof, first crossing Gawain, who still sits awake on the floor, and then eventually hitting the Knight.

Who, warmed by the light, awakens.

His eyes open first. Then his mouth closes, his teeth biting down, severing the flowers.

Then he turns his neck, and sees Gawain.

GREEN KNIGHT

You came.

His voice comes in that same deep whisper that once emerged from the Queen's lips.

Gawain rises to face him.

A shine returns to his eye, and he rips one great arm from out the wall and then the other. Each movement sounds like an entire tree uprooting.

Soon he is free of the wall.

GREEN KNIGHT (cont'd)

Good Sir, is it Christmas?

GAWAIN

Yes.

GREEN KNIGHT
Do you recall where you knicked
me?

GAWAIN

I do.
 
67.

GREEN KNIGHT

And have you come to see your blow returned?

GAWAIN

I have.

GREEN KNIGHT
Then kneel, brave knight, and let
us complete our game.

GAWAIN

...Now?

GREEN KNIGHT

Aye.

He slowly, languorously lifts his axe from the ground, letting the metal scrape against the stone.

The whetting sound is enough to make Gawain tremble, and once he begins he cannot stop.

Even so, he takes to one knee.

The Knight approaches him.

GREEN KNIGHT (cont'd) Here is one strike, as good as you gave.

He lifts the axe with both hands, up above his head.

Gawain instantly FLINCHES, and the Knight stays his swing.

GREEN KNIGHT (cont'd)

Sir, you flinch.

GAWAIN

I know! I know.

GREEN KNIGHT
Did I show signs of fear when our
positions were reversed?

GAWAIN

I'm not so confident as thee.

GREEN KNIGHT

You've had a year to prepare.

GAWAIN

One year or a hundred, it wouldn't make a difference.
(MORE)
 
68.

GAWAIN (CONT’D)

Give me a moment.

He takes several deep breaths, trying to find his composure.

And then...

GREEN KNIGHT

Are you ready?

GAWAIN

...Yes.

GREEN KNIGHT

Then I shall get to hacking.

He raises the axe again and is about to swing it down when...

GAWAIN

Wait! Wait.

The Green Knight stays his swing as Gawain lifts up his shift.

He looks back at the Knight.

GAWAIN (cont'd)

Is this really all there is?

GREEN KNIGHT

What else ought there be?

Gawain has no good answer. The fact that his own question is left hanging is answer enough. He looks away from the Knight and for a moment his eyes meet ours.

The Green Knight lifts the axe a third time and is a hair's breadth away from bringing it down...

...when Gawain buckles again. He collapses to the ground, and then scrambles out of the way.

GAWAIN

No! No. I am sorry! I cannot.

He keeps apologizing as he scrambles to his feet. The Knight lowers the axe and watches him with a look of genuine puzzlement. Maybe even sadness.

Gawain rushes towards the exit of the chapel, tripping in the stream as he goes.


EXT. GREEN CHAPEL - DAY

Gawain runs from the mouth of the chapel, scrambling across the creek and back up the slick banks towards the woods.
 
69.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

He runs through the forest, as fast as he can, until he can run no longer.

He leans against a tree, catching his breath, looking over his shoulder to see if he is pursued.

Which he is not.

When he looks back, though, he sees that he does indeed have company.

Standing a few feet away is GRYNGELOT. His beloved steed, returned at last! He can scarcely believe his eyes.

He goes to the horse and nuzzles his head against the beast's brow.

He cannot help but weep.


EXT. WOODS - DAY

They ride through the woods until the woods open up.

The woods seem desolate and burnt, as if a fire has swept through them during the one night Gawain spent in the chapel.

EXT. CHATEAU - DUSK

They rides across the bleak rocky steppes.

The silhouette of the Lord's Chateau rises in the distance. The drawbridge is up. All the windows are cold dark. It's as if no one has lived there.


EXT. MOUNTAIN RIDGE - NIGHT

They ride across a mountain ridge.

The body of a dead giant is visible in the valley below.

Abandoned by his kin.


EXT. SPRING - NIGHT

They pass the spring and the old house where St. Winifred's bones reside. The roof is caved in.
 
70.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - NIGHT

They ride through the battlefield, where most traces of the battle have long since rotted their way into the soil.


EXT. CITADEL - DAWN

As the sun rises, they approach the great walls of the Castle he calls home. A pall hangs over it.

The gates SLOWLY SWING OPEN FOR HIM, and he rides through at a measured pace.


INT. CITADEL - MORNING

He rides through the empty city streets...

...until he comes upon his MOTHER, heading to market with a basket...

...which she drops when she sees him.

He dismounts and she runs to him. She touches his cheeks, which we now see through her eyes. He is gaunt, starved, his skin sallow and pulled taught.

But he's alive.


INT. GAWAIN'S CHAMBER - DAY

Gawain's Mother helps him remove his shift, which by this point is plastered to his back with grime and sweat and filth.

She begins to mop his neck with a sponge. The water drips down his back.

The Lady's girdle is still wrapped around his waist.


INT. KING'S CHAMBERS - DAY

The King lies abed, ailing, on the doorstep of death. He gazes at Gawain with happy eyes.

He rises, slowly, with great difficulty. He whispers something in his aide's ear.

The aide brings him his sword, which itself is the stuff of legends.
 
71.

Gawain kneels, and the King, using every ounce of his strength, lifts the blade into the air one final time and then lowers it onto Gawain's shoulder.

He is now a Knight.


EXT. CITADEL - DAY

A FUNERAL PROCESSION.

The King's ornate open coffin is borne by all of the old Knights down the road from the castle.

Gawain walks ahead of them, arm in arm with the Queen on one side and his Mother on the other.


EXT. GRAVEYARD - DAY

POV FROM INSIDE GRAVE: Gawain, his Mother and the Queen throw handfuls of dirt upon the coffin until it fills the lens.

INT. MIDWIFERY - DAY

Now Essel is giving birth. She screams and pushes as the Midwives clutch her hand.

Gawain takes the bloodied newborn in his hands and wipes the birth from its face.

Then he takes the child out of the room, away from its mother. The look on her face says it all: she will not be allowed to raise it.


INT. COURT - DAY

Gawain presents the child to the Queen, who blesses it.


INT. QUEEN'S CHAMBERS - DAY

Now it is the Queen who lies in the coffin, and Gawain and his son, a toddler in his arms, stands over her.


INT. STATEROOM - DAY

A group of noblemen and politicians confer with the Bishop around a long table. After much murmuring and shouting and impassioned gesticulation, they all look up at Gawain, who stands on the other side of the room.
 
72.

INT. CATHEDRAL - DAY

Trumpets blare. Flags are unfurled.

Gawain is crowned king.

His aged Mother watches from the crowd with his son, who is now ten years old.


INT. THRONE ROOM - DAY

A PRINCESS from a neighboring country is brought before Gawain.

She bows. He takes her hand and kisses it.


INT. ROYAL BEDROOM - DAY

Gawain and his new bride undress for their wedding night. The Princess - now Queen - nervously undoes the buttons of his robes and slips them from his shoulders.

Then she goes for the girdle around his waist, but he stops her. Pushing her down on the bed and climbing atop her.


INT. ROYAL BEDROOM - NIGHT

As his new bride sleeps, Gawain goes and looks at the faded fresco painted above the bed, of a festive fox hunt in the countryside.

As he gazes at it, the plaster CRACKS. Dust rains down.


INT. WAR ROOM - DAY

Gawain, accompanied by many generals, surveys a military plan on a map.


EXT. CASTLE WINDOW - DAY

Gawain's wife nurses a NEWBORN DAUGHTER, humming a sweet melody to her.

Gawain stands in the window and watches a battle rage beyond the walls.


EXT. CITADEL - DAY

That melody continues as Gawain surveys the aftermath of a great battle. Many hundreds are dead.
 
73.

A wounded soldier reaches up to him for help before expiring.

A herald calls to him, bringing him to a particular tent, where his son, now nearly 20, is dead and gutted.


INT. CITADEL DAY - DAY

It continues still as Gawain rides back through the village. The citizens are unhappy, shouting at him and his procession. An older Essel watches him, trying to get him to notice her in the crowd, but he does not.

Someone throws a clump of shit at him. It hits him in the face. He stops his horse for a moment to wipe his face, while out of focus in the background his guards hunt down the offender in the crowd.


INT. GREAT HALL - DAY

CAMERA PUSHES TOWARDS Gawain as he sits barricaded in the Great Hall alongside his ancient Mother and his young Queen, whose hand he claps. Their daughter is there too, six years old.

Other signs of time's passage are evident. Gawain's beard has turned gray. The hall itself has fallen into disrepair.

Hanging above their head is the PHOTOGRAPH of Gawain the Lady took, mounted on the wall where the portrait of the Old King once was.

And now there is a great clamor outside. Angry shouts, banging on the door. Someone is coming for them.

The doors to the great hall BURST OPEN.

Terrified, the Queen withdraws her hand and departs with their daughter, leaving Gawain alone with his Mother.

He looks to her, and then up at us. His old eyes gaze straight into the lens.

All alone, he begins to WEEP. Tears spilling down his cheeks, into his silver beard.

He reaches below his robes and finds the thread of that girdle. He begins to pull at the ancient threads. Pulling at them until they rip and tear and come loose. He pulls the garment away.

And the moment he does, his HEAD ROLLS OFF as if it had long ago been cleanly cut.

It rolls across the floor of the Great Hall, eventually coming to an unceremonious end.
 
74.

We CUT TO A WIDE SHOT of the hall, and the headless king in his throne. His decapitated noggin a smudge at the bottom of the frame.

CAMERA PANS AWAY from them, to the open door of the Hall...


INT. GREEN CHAPEL

And Gawain is still kneeling, and the Green Knight still stands above him, axe raised above his head, about to strike down.

Before he does, Gawain raises his hand once more, staying his execution.

GAWAIN

Wait! Wait wait. One last thing.

He reaches under his shift and tears off his girdle.

GAWAIN (cont'd)

Now I'm ready.

He sets the girdle beside him on the mossy chapel floor, and then lowers his head for the last time.

The axe comes down.

The game is complete.

CUT TO BLACK
