INT. HOSPITAL - OPERATING THEATRE - MORNING

STEVEN, a cardiothoracic surgeon, around 45 years old, MATTHEW, an anesthetist of around 55, and three SURGICAL NURSES are leaning over the chest of a patient. They are performing open heart surgery. We follow the surgical instruments as they explore the patient's internal organs. The surgeon's movements are precise, considered. The procedure unfolds in perfect synchronicity. No one misses a beat. The only sounds are the clink of metal instruments, the doctors' breathing, and the electronic beep of the heart monitor.


BLACK SCREEN - OPENING CREDITS


INT. HOSPITAL - SURGERY PREPARATION ROOM - MORNING

Steven and Matthew stand at a sink, washing their hands. Their scrubs are splattered with blood. The overhead lighting is harsh. The anesthetist takes his watch out of his pocket and puts it on. The surgeon takes the anesthetist's hand and studies his watch. Steven

Nice watch.

Matthew Thanks.

STEVEN
What's the water resistance?

MATTHEW
200 metres.

Steven

It also has a date display.

MATTHEW (CONT’D)

Yes, it does.

STEVEN
I might have gone for a metal strap instead of a leather strap.

MATTHEW
Oh, really?

STEVEN
Yes. I think I'd prefer a metal strap. I've had this one for years and it's as good as new.
 
2.


He shows Matthew the watch he's wearing, which has a metal strap. Matthew studies it carefully.

MATTHEW
What's the water resistance?

STEVEN
100 metres.

MATTHEW
How long have you had it?

STEVEN
Nine years. I'm a bit bored of it, actually. I've been thinking about getting a new one for a while now.

MATTHEW
Think about it. We can go together to the place where I bought it. If I tell them you're a colleague of mine, a friend, they'll definitely give you a better price. Both the owner and his father have been patients of mine, so I know them quite well. Think about it.

Steven looks at Matthew's watch again. He smiles almost imperceptibly and with a nod assures Matthew that he will think about it. The anesthetist leaves the room.


INT. HOSPITAL - STEVEN'S OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Steven unlocks the door to his office. A small room with two chairs, a two-seater sofa, and a metal locker. He opens the locker, takes off his white coat and hangs it up. He puts on a blazer and picks up his leather briefcase.


INT. BURGER KING - AFTERNOON

Steven sits in a Burger King, waiting for someone. He sips a soft drink. There are barely any customers, it's a slow time of day. On the table in front of him is a small piece of apple pie. MARTIN, a teenage boy, rushes over to Steven's table. His face is flushed and his T-shirt is patchy with sweat. Martin, around 15, is dressed like a typical teenager. He has a nondescript face, not particularly likeable but not unlikeable either.

MARTIN
Hi.
 
3.


STEVEN
Hi.

MARTIN
Sorry to keep you waiting. Did you eat?

STEVEN
I've just had some apple pie.

MARTIN
Do you mind if I grab something to eat before we go? I'm starving.

STEVEN
Sure. No problem.

MARTIN
Are you sure you don't want

anything? Chicken wings?

STEVEN
No, thank you. I'm fine. Do you

have money? I can give you some.

MARTIN
No, I've got money, thanks. I'll be right back.

The boy leaves. Steven's mobile phone rings. He switches the ringer to silent and ignores the call. He watches the boy as he waits for his order. Martin comes back. Steven watches Martin while he eats. The boy eats very methodically. He folds his napkin neatly and puts it to one side.

STEVEN
Did you get a haircut?

MARTIN
Yes. Do you like it?

STEVEN
It looks great.

A beat of silence.

STEVEN (CONT’D)

Aren't you going to eat your chips?

MARTIN
I'm saving them 'til last.

STEVEN
Why?
 
4.


MARTIN
I really like chips. I always save them for last.

STEVEN
I do that too.

Martin finishes his burger then starts eating his chips. He leaves half of them untouched and pushes his plate away.

STEVEN (CONT’D)

Shall we go?

MARTIN
I've got French class in an hour.

Will I be back in time?

STEVEN
Yes, definitely. Don't worry.


EXT. SEASIDE ROAD - AFTERNOON

Steven and Martin are standing beside the car. It is parked near the sea. The weather is fine, the sea calm. A few people are swimming. The boy takes off his jacket.

MARTIN
Sorry I was late today, Steven.

STEVEN
It doesn't matter.

MARTIN
I was at a friend's house. He got a new motorbike and I wanted to check it out. He took me for a ride, that's why I was late.

STEVEN
It's fine.

MARTIN
He even let me ride it for a bit.

STEVEN
I hope you were wearing helmets.

MARTIN
Yes, of course we were. We weren't going very fast anyway.

A beat of silence.
 
5.


STEVEN
I got you a present.

Steven hands Martin a small box. The boy opens the box. Inside is a new watch. It's the same one the anesthetist was wearing.

MARTIN
I don't know how to thank you. It's really nice. Thank you so much. Can I give you a kiss?

The doctor nods. The boy kisses him and strokes his cheek. He slips the watch onto his right wrist.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

Thank you so much.

STEVEN
It's water resistant up to 200

metres.

MARTIN
Fantastic. Does this come off? I'd prefer a leather strap.

STEVEN
It comes off, yes. You can put on any strap you like. But metal ones are more hard-wearing, that's why I got you the metal strap. It's more expensive too.

MARTIN
Yes. Thank you so much.


EXT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - GARDEN - NIGHT

A detached suburban house. Steven is sitting at the garden table with his two children: KIM, a girl of 14, and BOB, a 12 year old boy. A hush hangs in the air. The garden is perfectly manicured and the flowers are well tended. The doctor's wife brings out a dish with meat and starts to serve everyone. She is around 40, rather beautiful. Her name is ANNA.

KIM
Dad, do you remember Claire, my

friend from school?

STEVEN
Yes.
 
6.


KIM
It's her birthday and she's having a party in two weeks. At her place. She's invited most of the class. Can I go?

STEVEN
We'll see.

BOB
Dad, if Kim goes can I go with her?

STEVEN
I don't know, darling. Your mother and I will discuss it and we'll see.

ANNA
I say they can go. Claire is a very nice girl. She's the girl we met at the mall with her parents who asked you about becoming a doctor. The one who wants to be a cardiologist.

STEVEN
Yes, I remember.

ANNA
How was work today?

STEVEN
Fine. How about you?

ANNA
I've decided to make a few changes at the clinic. I'm going to get it painted, buy a new sofa. I'm thinking of doing it now before my receptionist goes on leave. Did I tell you she's pregnant?

STEVEN
Yes. Good for her.

ANNA
Yes. She finally succeeded. She's
thrilled.

(Looking at her son.) Look at you, all hunched over. You'll strain your back like that, how many times do I have to tell you? And your hair is practically trailing in your food.
 
7.


STEVEN
Bob, you promised me you'd get a haircut and you still haven't done it.

BOB
I'll get a haircut.

STEVEN
Tomorrow.

BOB
Not tomorrow, Dad. After the party.

ANNA
I like his hair long. He has lovely hair.

KIM
What about mine?

ANNA
You have lovely hair too. We all have lovely hair. And darling, you have to go to the dentist. It's been over six months, it's time to get your teeth cleaned again. I'll book an appointment for Friday afternoon. Is Friday afternoon all right? Do you have any appointments at the hospital?

STEVEN
No. Friday after five is fine.

Thank you.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna is sitting in front of the mirror, removing her make-up. Steven is lying in bed in his pajamas, looking at something on his phone. The room is dimly lit.

ANNA
I bought that dress you liked. I can wear it tomorrow. I can't show it to you now, it needed some alterations. I'm picking it up tomorrow.

STEVEN
The black one?
 
8.


ANNA
It was the black one you liked,

wasn't it?

STEVEN
Yes. The other one looked great on you too, but I think the black one was perfect.

ANNA
I'm worried it's a bit too short. I'd like it better if it was below the knee.

STEVEN
You've got great legs. You've got
the most beautiful legs of any
ophthalmologist anywhere in the

world.

ANNA
Let me think, yes, of all the cardiologists in the world, there's no doubt at all, you are most definitely the biggest flatterer of them all.

STEVEN
Is that a problem?

ANNA
No, that's not a problem. And
that's why tomorrow I'm going to
bake a lemon cake and nobody's

going to eat any of it, but you.

STEVEN
Not even the kids?

ANNA
Not even the kids. Did I tell you

about my receptionist?

STEVEN
Yes.

ANNA
If Kim was a bit more dependable,
she could help arrange the
appointments at the clinic until

Christina gets back.

STEVEN
Kim could handle that just fine.
 
9.


ANNA
I don't know. I hope so. Did I tell you, Bob announced me the other day he wants to be an ophthalmologist.

STEVEN
Yes, you did. Bob would be a coal
miner if you were one too. Do you

mind if I turn the light off?

Anna gets up and kisses him on the mouth for a long time.

ANNA
No.

They carry on kissing with the lights on. Anna pulls Steven's pajama bottoms off.


INT. HOSPITAL - STEVEN'S OFFICE - MORNING

Steven is examining a PATIENT. There is a knock at the door.
Steven's SECRETARY enters.

SECRETARY
Excuse me, Doctor. There's a boy
for you outside. He says it's

urgent.

STEVEN
I'll be out in five minutes. Tell

him to wait.


INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - MORNING

Steven sees Martin waiting for him in the corridor. He takes him to one side.

STEVEN
Look I've told you, it's best not
to come to the hospital without

calling me first.

MARTIN
You're right. I'm sorry. I just wanted to thank you again and show you the new strap I got for my watch. I swapped the metal strap for a leather one. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to put you in an awkward position. Bye.

The boy walks away.
 
10.


STEVEN
Martin. Come here. What kind of

strap did you get?

MARTIN
(Without turning his head)

Brown leather.

The doctor hurries after the boy and catches up with him.

STEVEN
Show me.

Martin hesitates at first, then shows him the watch.

STEVEN (CONT’D)

It's very nice.

MARTIN
Do you really think so? Or are you just being polite?

STEVEN
I really like it. Next time you want to come here, please call me first. You have my number. It's for your own good. I might be with a patient or in surgery or in a meeting. There's no point you waiting around if I can't see you. I'm telling you for your own good.

MARTIN
Okay.

Matthew walks past, holding a patient's file. He comes over to Steven and puts on his reading glasses.

MATTHEW
Good morning.

STEVEN
Good morning, Matthew.

MATTHEW
Could you please take a quick look at this.

He shows Steven the file.

STEVEN
Of course, Matthew. Please leave it on my desk. I'll have a look in a minute.
 
11.


Martin looks at the anesthetist.

MARTIN
We've got the same watch.

The anesthetist turns to look at Martin, who shows him his watch.

STEVEN
Let me introduce you. This young man is one of my son's classmates. I ran into Martin and his parents at the mall last week. He told me he's very interested in medicine. He wants to be a cardiologist. I suggested he drop by some time, so he can see what being a doctor is really about. Martin, this is Matthew, a great friend of mine and an excellent anesthetist.

MATTHEW
That's great. Nice to meet you.

MARTIN
Nice to meet you too. Steven, I'm going to leave it on your desk. Let me know when you're ready.

The anesthetist walks off.

STEVEN
I've got to go back in now. We'll
talk on the phone to arrange our

next meeting. All right?

MARTIN
Okay.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KIM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Steven, dressed in a suit and bow tie, sits opposite Kim. She is doing voice exercises. She exhales slowly, controlling her diaphragm, then takes a deep breath and runs through a series of vocal scales. Bob has just had a shower and is combing his hair very thoroughly and very slowly.

Steven watches his daughter with pride, holding her gaze as she performs her vocal drills. When she finishes, Steven claps, stands up, and kisses her on the cheek.
 
12.


STEVEN
I think your breathing has really improved over the last few months.

KIM
That's what the choirmaster said

too.

STEVEN
Did you tell him to move you closer to the front?

KIM
Yes, I did. He said he'll see what he can do.

Steven turns to Bob.

STEVEN
Did you water the plants, Bob?

BOB
Mum said she was going to water

them.

STEVEN
Your mother works very hard. That's why we said it would be nice to help her as much as we can, and we agreed that Kim would take care of walking the dog and you would take care of the plants.

BOB
I'll do the dog and Kim can do the plants.

STEVEN
You're too young to be wandering

around at night by yourself.

Bob gives the comb to Kim.

BOB
Thanks for the comb.

KIM
You're welcome.

Bob leaves the room. The door opens and Anna walks in.

ANNA
We've got to go.
 
13.


STEVEN
Tell Bob to water the plants now

that the sun has gone down.

ANNA
I've watered them already. Come on, we're going to be late.


INT. CARDIOLOGY CONFERENCE - HALL - NIGHT

Steven is at the podium giving a speech. The conference hall is quite evidently full of doctors.

STEVEN
A full 22 years have passed since
the German cardiologist Andreas
Gruentzig performed the first
coronary angioplasty, on 16
September 1977. Today, that first
patient is still alive and well.
Dr. Gruentzig, however, had an
unfortunate accident and met with
an untimely end. In short, he is
one of those rare cases where one
can say: "The operation was a
success, but unfortunately the
doctor didn't make it."

Scattered laughter in the audience. The doctor chuckles and takes a sip of water before he continues.

STEVEN (CONT’D)

In the two decades that have passed since that first coronary angioplasty, many things have changed. The indications for angioplasty are more widespread, alternatives to the classic balloon method have been developed, and an angioplasty during the acute phase of a heart attack is practically a routine operation nowadays.

STEVEN (CONT’D)
But now let's touch upon the
importance, both for us doctors and
for our patients, of the

development and use of the stent.

Anna watches her husband with pride. Matthew, sitting next to her, gets up.
 
14.


MATTHEW
I'm going for a cigarette. I'll be at the bar. Come find me when it's over.

ANNA
Okay.


INT. CARDIOLOGY CONFERENCE - PARTY - NIGHT

Steven is talking to Anna, Matthew and an ELDERLY MAN, who is holding a flamboyant cocktail.

ELDERLY MAN
The guy who made it told me what was in it. I can't remember now but it's very refreshing. Would you like one?

STEVEN
No, thank you.

ELDERLY MAN
Try it. It's really delicious. Use this straw, I haven't touched it.

ANNA
He hasn't had a drink in three
years. High GGT and elevated

transaminases.

ELDERLY MAN
Good on you for not drinking.

Steven smiles.

MATTHEW
Well, I wouldn't say no to a cocktail, if you're still offering.

ELDERLY MAN
Of course. I'll get you one right

away.

ANNA
I think we should go soon.

MATTHEW
It's early.

ANNA
He's got surgery in the morning and he needs to get some sleep.
 
15.


MATTHEW
It's still early.

STEVEN
We've got surgery in the morning.

MATTHEW
Fine, okay. How are the kids?

ANNA
They're doing very well. Bob started piano lessons and the teacher says he's really talented. Now we need to buy him one so that he can practise at home, but I haven't got round to it. I'm renovating the clinic. I'm on the phone all day.

STEVEN
Our daughter started menstruating

last week.

MATTHEW
(awkwardly)

Great.

STEVEN
Yes. She was a little scared, but
she's okay now. You haven't seen

her in ages.

MATTHEW
Not since last summer. At that

school choir concert.

ANNA
You'll have to come over for dinner one night. You really shouldn't stay late either. Just drink that cocktail you ordered and get yourself home. You have to be at the hospital in six hours. Shall we go, darling?

STEVEN
Yes.


EXT. SEASIDE ROAD - AFTERNOON

Steven is eating an ice cream with Martin. The doctor stares at the boy's wrist as he eats his ice cream.
 
16.


STEVEN
You're not wearing your watch.

MARTIN
Yes, I took it off to take a shower and left it at home.

STEVEN
It's water resistant up to 200

metres.

MARTIN
Oh, that's right. I forgot.

STEVEN
If you don't like it, we can go back to the shop and you can choose one that you do like.

MARTIN
No, I really like it. I just took it off to take a shower and forgot to put it back on, that's all.

Martin carries on eating his ice cream. It's quite clear that the subject is closed.

STEVEN
Do you have many friends?

MARTIN
Not that many. I don't think people can have a lot of friends. I mean, it's difficult. The important thing in life is to have good friends, not lots of friends. That's what my dad used to tell me.

STEVEN
Your father was absolutely right.

MARTIN
Yes, I know. I have a very good friend from school who plays basketball. We go and play together sometimes. And a friend who lives in France. I don't see him very often. He usually comes in the summer with his family. He's a great guy, very polite, lots of hobbies. I really miss him. I also consider my mum to be a friend.

(MORE)
 
17.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

I know it might sound strange, but ever since my dad died we've become very close, me and my mum. We talk about things, lots of things. She helps me as much as she can with a lot of stuff. And I help her too.

STEVEN
I'd like to ask you a favour. Only if you want to of course, I don't want you to feel any pressure or obligation. It just seemed to me like a good idea, so I thought I'd ask.

He hesitates for a moment.

STEVEN (CONT’D)

I'd like you to come by my house one day. To meet my wife and children. I think you'd all get along really well, especially with Bob. They're both lovely kids, I think you'll get along great. What do you think? Like I said, I don't want to pressure you, come only if you'd genuinely like to.

Martin looks at him for a few seconds without saying anything.

MARTIN
Are you serious? I'd love to come

to your house.


EXT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Martin enters the front garden of Steven's house. He is carrying a bunch of flowers and a plastic bag. He rings the doorbell. Anna opens the front door.

ANNA
Good afternoon. You must be Martin.

MARTIN
That's right. These flowers are for you.

ANNA
Thank you very much, Martin. Come

on in.
 
18.


EXT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - GARDEN - AFTERNOON

Martin goes out into the back garden with Anna. Steven walks over to greet him.

STEVEN
Hi, Martin. Did you find the house all right?

MARTIN
Yes, it was very easy.

STEVEN
You've met Anna. Now let me introduce you to my children. This is Bob. And this is Kim.

MARTIN
Very nice to meet you. I've brought you some little gifts.

STEVEN
That's very kind of you.

Martin takes two small boxes out of his plastic bag and gives them to Bob and Kim. They start unwrapping the presents.

ANNA
Thank you.

MARTIN
It's a key ring with a musical note on it for Kim, because I know she likes music. And one with a smiley face for Bob.

BOB
Thanks.

ANNA
What lovely key rings. Now let's
get a move on and eat before the
food gets cold. Are you hungry,

Martin?

MARTIN
Yes, I'm starving.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - KIM'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Martin is sitting on the edge of the bed. Bob is sitting next to him. Bob is staring at Martin's shoes, which are identical to his own - probably another gift from Steven.
 
19.


Kim is standing by the wardrobe. Martin stares at a photograph of Kim, lying on a beach in a swimsuit. A child's leg, probably Bob's, is also visible beside her in the picture.

MARTIN
How long have you been in the

choir, Kim?

KIM
Two years. Since I was 12. Do you

like singing?

MARTIN
I love it. But I haven't got a very good voice.

BOB
How old are you?

MARTIN
15.

BOB
Have you got hair under your arms

yet?

MARTIN
Yes.

KIM
I just got my first period.

MARTIN
Do you mind if I light a cigarette?

BOB
You'd better not.

KIM
It's all right. Just go over by the window.

Martin goes over to the window and smokes a cigarette.

MARTIN
Can you sing us something?

KIM
What, now?

MARTIN
Yes. Anything you like.
 
20.


KIM
Not right now.

BOB
She's embarrassed.

KIM
No I'm not. I just don't feel like it. When did you start smoking?

MARTIN
Eight months ago. I was over at a friend's place, it was a party actually, and we'd had way too much to drink and a girl offered me a cigarette and I said "why not" and lit up. That was a mistake. I regret it, but it's too late now. I'm addicted.

BOB
Can you show me the hair under your arms?

MARTIN
Sure.

Martin shows Bob his underarm hair.

BOB
You haven't got that much. Have you seen how hairy my dad is?

MARTIN
No.

BOB
He's got three times more hair than you do.

KIM
You've got a great body.

MARTIN
Thanks.

An awkward pause.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
Do you want to go out for a walk?
It's a really nice day.
 
21.


BOB
I'd rather stay here and listen to music.

Bob picks up his headphones and an MP3 player.

KIM
Is that my MP3 player or yours?

BOB
Mine. You've asked me a million times. And don't you dare take this one and lose it as well, because Dad said he's not going to buy us new ones.

BOB (CONT’D)
What kind of music do you listen
to?

MARTIN
All kinds.

BOB
I'm into metal and punk. What about you?

MARTIN
I think all kinds of music are
worth listening to. It depends on

my mood and what I'm doing…

Bob puts his headphones on before Martin can finish his sentence.

KIM
I'll come for a walk, if you like. We can take the dog with us. If you don't mind.

MARTIN
I'd rather it was just the two of us. I always get nervous around dogs, in case they get into a fight with another dog. Separating dogs that are fighting scares me.


EXT. ROAD - AFTERNOON

Martin and Kim are walking along the road. There is an awkward distance between them and they both stare straight ahead. Martin has one hand in his jacket pocket and a cigarette in the other.
 
22.


Kim walks a few steps behind him, watching him. She picks up her pace and catches up with Martin. She undoes her ponytail and shakes out her hair.


EXT. PARK - AFTERNOON

Martin is sitting on a bench watching Kim. She stands facing him, singing a song. Martin nods his head in time with the music. Kim sways as she sings, not quite dancing. She holds a lit cigarette in one hand.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Martin is sitting on the sofa. Kim sits next to him. Anna, opposite them, is serving lemonade. On the table is a plate with some carrot cake. The dog is staring at the cake. Bob still has his headphones on.

MARTIN
Is this homemade lemonade?

ANNA
Yes.

MARTIN
It's amazing. My mother makes lemonade too. But she hasn't made it in a while. I'll ask her to make some. I love lemonade.

He drains his glass of lemonade and refills it.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

The kids' rooms are amazing. So big and bright. I told Bob to put a pull-up bar in his bedroom doorway. I've got one and I do a few pull-ups every time I walk past.

STEVEN
That's a great idea.

BOB
I don't think so. Pull-up bars in
doorways are dangerous. You might

fall.

MARTIN
If you attach it to the door frame properly, you won't fall.
 
23.


BOB
Okay. If we get one, we'll ask you to come help us put it up.

MARTIN
With pleasure. You know this whole house is really amazing.

STEVEN
You're welcome to spend the night, if you like. We can easily fit a mattress on the floor next to Bob's bed. You can play together in the morning and I'll drop you back home tomorrow afternoon.

MARTIN
Thank you very much, but I'd rather go home tonight. I don't like leaving my mother by herself. She wouldn't mind if I told her I was spending the night here, but I'd better not.

STEVEN
Whatever you like.

MARTIN
Can I have a piece of cake please?

ANNA
Of course you can. What about you

guys?

KIM
No.

Bob doesn't respond.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT.

Anna is in the en-suite bathroom, flossing her teeth. Steven is already in bed.

ANNA
What a charming boy.

STEVEN
Isn't he?

ANNA
Yes, very. How did his father die?
 
24.


STEVEN
Car crash.

ANNA
You should tell him to come round

again.

The doctor's mobile phone rings. He ignores it.

STEVEN
I will. He'll be great company for Bob. I thought next time I could take them both out somewhere, for a bike ride.

ANNA
Darling, you should get that. It

might be the hospital.

Steven answers his phone. It's Martin. Steven gets up and leaves the room.


INT. STEVEN'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Steven goes out into the corridor. He tries to speak quietly.

STEVEN
Hello?

MARTIN
Hello. How are you?

STEVEN
I'm fine, Martin. Has something

happened?

MARTIN
No. I just called to tell you I had a wonderful time today.

STEVEN
I'm very pleased to hear that.

MARTIN
Yes. I thought I should return the favour, so I'd like to invite you to dinner. At my house. My mother will be delighted to see you. She hasn't seen you in two years, not since the hospital.

(MORE)
 
25.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
I asked her if she'd like you to
come for dinner one day and she
said she'd like that very much.

She'll bake a meat pie.

STEVEN
That's very kind of you. We'll do

that someday.

MARTIN
Tomorrow night. I told her already. I've asked her to make meat pie and lemonade. I'll be home by eight-thirty. Around nine?

STEVEN
All right. Around nine.

MARTIN
I can buy some non-alcoholic beers, if you like.

STEVEN
No, there's no need.

MARTIN
I'll buy four and if you don't drink them it doesn't matter. My mother will drink them, or some other guest another day. So I'll see you tomorrow at nine. Good night and sorry to disturb you. Are Kim and Bob asleep?

STEVEN
Yes.

MARTIN
I'm going to sleep now, too. Good

night.

STEVEN
Good night.


INT. HOSPITAL - SURGERY PREP ROOM - MORNING

Steven pulls off his bloodied surgical gloves. He washes his hands and then applies steriliser. Matthew, standing beside him, takes off his disposable hat, gloves, and surgical mask and throws them in the bin.
 
26.


MATTHEW
A friend of mine brought me a huge steelhead the other day. I thought I'd barbecue it. Do you and Anna want to come over for lunch on Saturday?

STEVEN
I'd love to. I'll talk to Anna tonight to check we can make it and let you know.

MATTHEW
Does Anna eat fish?

STEVEN
Yes, she does.

MATTHEW
I'm only asking because she seems

like quite a picky eater.

STEVEN
No, she isn't. She loves fish.

MATTHEW
Perfect. Then you must come. Tell her I'll be offended if you don't.


INT. HOSPITAL CAR PARK - EVENING

Steven approaches his car. The car park is fairly dark. Steven gets into his car and switches on the engine. As he pulls away, he sees a figure moving behind some parked cars. It looks like Martin. He's wearing the same jacket as Martin, but we can't see his face. As Steven drives towards him, the figure runs towards the fire escape, opens the door, and disappears.


INT. MARTIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Steven, Martin and MARTIN'S MOTHER have just finished dinner. Martin's mother is around 45 years old, a little plump, and has a beautiful face. She is dressed rather formally and is heavily made up. The living room is spacious and decorated in a conventional style. Everything is just so. Martin drains a glass of lemonade. His mother clears away the dishes and takes them into the kitchen.

STEVEN
Did you come to the hospital today?
 
27.


MARTIN
No. I was at school, then I went to the gym and my French class. Weren't you at the hospital today?

STEVEN
I was, but I was really busy. I
just wondered whether you came by

and couldn't find me.

Martin's mother returns.

MARTIN
I'd like us to watch a film

together, if you don't mind.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
I'd gladly watch a film.

STEVEN
I'm afraid I have to be getting home soon. I can't be out too late. I didn't tell my wife I'd be late tonight and she might get worried.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
You could call her. In any case, if you feel tired we can stop the film, you can go home and we can watch the rest next time you come.

MARTIN
Please. We've rented my favourite film. It was my father's favourite film too.


INT. MARTIN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Steven, Martin, and Martin's mother are sitting on the sofa watching the film. She looks rapt. Martin yawns.

MARTIN
I think I'll go to bed. I'm tired. Besides, I've got to get up early tomorrow to finish my homework. I'm sorry I can't watch the end of the film with you.

He gives them both a kiss and hug.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

Good night.
 
28.


MARTIN'S MOTHER
Good night.

STEVEN
Good night.

Sitting on the sofa side by side, Steven and Martin's mother carry on watching the film for a while.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
He really loves you, you know. He

talks about you a lot.

STEVEN
I love him too.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
Have you been married long?

STEVEN
16 years.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
You have lovely hands.

STEVEN
Thank you.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
Most doctors have beautiful hands.

So white and soft and clean.

STEVEN
Really?

MARTIN'S MOTHER
Yes. I remember your hands from
back when I used to visit my
husband at the hospital. In fact, I
even told him about your hands and
he agreed. "You're right, he has
beautiful hands," he said.

STEVEN
Thank you very much.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
Do you remember me coming to the

hospital?

STEVEN
Of course.
 
29.


MARTIN'S MOTHER
I was a bit heavier then. And my

hair was brown.

STEVEN
Yes.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
I got tired of it. I dyed it about a month ago. Did you prefer me with brown hair? Like it was back then?

STEVEN
I think it's nicer now.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
Yes. I agree. Do you like the film?

STEVEN
Yes, it's good.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
It gets better. You'll see. Would

you like some dessert?

STEVEN
No, thank you.

MARTIN'S MOTHER
Maybe later, then. You did eat a

lot.

She moves closer to him.

MARTIN'S MOTHER (CONT’D) Can I have a closer look at your hands?

Steven looks embarrassed. Reluctantly, he extends a hand.

Martin's mother looks at the doctor's hand. She kisses it momentarily, almost reverently. Then again and again, all over. She sticks his whole thumb in her mouth. He stands up.

MARTIN'S MOTHER (CONT’D) Don't be afraid. He's definitely asleep. There's nothing to be afraid of. In any case, he wants this as much as I do, you know.

STEVEN
I have to go. It's late. Thank you for dinner. I have to go. Have a good night.
 
30.


MARTIN'S MOTHER
I'm sorry if I made you feel
awkward. I didn't mean to. But I
won't let you leave until you've
tried my tart. I made it for you

specially.

MARTIN'S MOTHER (CONT’D) It's a caramel tart with custard cream. I'll bring you some now. Please, sit down.

STEVEN
I'm afraid I really have to go.

Good night.

The doctor gets his coat and bag and walks out.


INT. HOSPITAL - STEVEN'S OFFICE - MORNING

Steven walks into his office. Martin is there, sitting in a chair. The doctor is startled to see him. He stands in the doorway holding his bag. Martin smiles at him.

MARTIN
Good morning.

STEVEN
What are you doing here? Why aren't you in school?

MARTIN
My heart aches.

The boy takes off his T-shirt.

STEVEN
What do you mean?

MARTIN
I'm in pain. It's my chest, my

heart. I'm worried.

STEVEN
There's no reason for you to be

worried.

MARTIN
I'm worried because it's

hereditary.

STEVEN
You're too young to be worried.
 
31.


MARTIN
That's what you said about my father. And he didn't smoke, he ate a very healthy diet, he went swimming almost every day. He should have come out of that surgery alive but he died. I also smoke. I started smoking recently.
(Touching his chest.)
It hurts here. I hardly slept at

all last night.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
My mother was terribly worried. I
slept in her bed.

Steven attaches some electrodes to the boy's chest.


INT. HOSPITAL - STRESS TEST ROOM - MORNING

Martin is running on a treadmill. Wires are attached to his body. Steven measures Martin's blood pressure while he runs.

INT. HOSPITAL - STEVEN'S OFFICE - MORNING

Martin removes the electrodes from his body and puts his T-shirt back on.

MARTIN
If I had hair on my chest and
stomach, how would you attach

these?

STEVEN
We'd shave the hair off first.

MARTIN
How long does it take for the hair to grow back?

STEVEN
I don't know. About a month, I

suppose.

MARTIN
Your son told me you have loads of hair under your arms, three times more than I do. And that you have a hairy belly and a hairy back.
 
32.


STEVEN
I probably do have a bit more hair than you do because I'm older than you. But you'll soon have more hair too. It's all down to hormones.

MARTIN
Can I see? Please. Take off your

shirt and show me, please.

The doctor hesitates, but eventually complies. Martin stares at his body.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

Okay, you do have more than me. But not three times more.

MARTIN (CONT’D)

Mum and I thought it would be nice if you came for dinner with us tonight, then we can watch the rest of the film. Is nine good for you?

STEVEN
Thank you very much, but I'm afraid I can't make it tonight. I need to be home.
