Her body is perfect.

THE TRAPEZE

Is eighty feet above the ground. LORELEI, 22, beautiful, arcs through the air, her fingers catching the bar, swinging down, arcing out.

From where he is, he can see everything.

The Hunchback is happy.


KENT, ENGLAND - 1851


EXT. THE FAIRGROUND

It’s a cool, gray morning. The circus is setting up; animals are led here and there, dancers stretch, clowns practice...

The Hunchback, 20, sits outside, looking through a rip in the tent, watching Lorelei practice on the trapeze inside.

He is dirty; pathologically so. He wears old clown clothes, the colors worn and faded. His slouched posture and messy, overlong hair are offset by bright, intelligent eyes.

The Hunchback notices that one of the ropes attached to the trapeze is wearing thin. He grimaces, thinking..

WE WATCH THE
HUNCHBACK GO
ABOUT HIS DAY:

He works around the grounds, helping to set up the circus, as well as tending to the minor aches and pains of the circus crew; they treat him like garbage, but seem to trust his judgment.

We witness him steal a bottle of ink, and, in between the grunt labor, he very carefully begins to draw out an intricate diagram.

IN A PUP TENT

The Hunchback is examining NATHANIEL, 20s, a huge circus strongman. He’s investigating a bruise on his wrist.

HUNCHBACK
Well, it’s not broken-

NATHANIEL
Feels broken.

HUNCHBACK
It’s not-

NATHANIEL
Can I lift or not.
 
2.

HUNCHBACK
Master Nathaniel, it’s not that
simple-

NATHANIEL
It’s that simple.

The Hunchback takes a beat, then brings out his diagram.

HUNCHBACK
I’ve made you a diagram, of a wrist support I could construct if-

Nathaniel grabs the diagram and rips it to shreds.

NATHANIEL
I don’t care for any bloody
diagram.	If it’s broken, I can’t
lift, if it’s not, I can.

The Hunchback stares at the shredded diagram.

NIGHT, AT THE
KITCHEN TRAILER

The whole staff of the circus is lined up for food. The Hunchback is several times jostled out of line, forced to the back, before finally getting his dinner.

He goes and sits alone at the edge of the fairground.

Lorelei speaks, startling him.

LORELEI (O.S.)
We’ve been spending so much time in cities I feel like I forgot what the stars looked like.

HUNCHBACK
You ought to spend more dinners
sitting and eating in mud alone,
gives one perspective I think.

LORELEI
You really could come eat with us.

HUNCHBACK
That hasn’t worked out so well in
the past, has it?

LORELEI
There’s always-

HUNCHBACK
I think I’m good here for now. Thank you for coming to see me, you’re much easier to talk to than the...flies.
 
3.

LORELEI
I actually have a gift. When I went into town today, I saw that it was being thrown out...

She hands him a book, stained and torn: “PERCY’S MUSCLES OF THE BODY.” His face lights up in a way that didn’t seem possible as he trudged through his miserable day.

HUNCHBACK
What really, really you did, oh this is, this is splendid, thank you! Thank you Lorelei, just splendid, and it’s only- it’s only three years out of date! This is, oh this is the tops, this is-

The fanfare of the circus starts up in the distance, and Lorelei perks up.

LORELEI
Well, that’s my cue to go get
ready.	I wouldn’t want to upset
dear Lord Barnaby.

HUNCHBACK
I don’t know how to thank you for
this, I don’t-

LORELEI
I know how you like your books-

HUNCHBACK
Wait, Master Lorelei!

LORELEI
...Yes?

HUNCHBACK
I saw, when you were practicing...

LORELEI
...Yes?

HUNCHBACK
I saw maybe something was wrong, with the riggings. On the trapeze.

LORELEI
(beat)
Thank you, sir.	I’ll take it up
with Mr. Plough.

The Hunchback gives an uncertain smile. Lorelei heads off, and he stares at his new book.
 
4.

INT. THE HUNCHBACK’S RAIL-CAR

It’s a large car for hauling equipment, but the back the Hunchback has carved out a little den for himself. Across from it is another makeshift living space, in which sits

RAFFERTY, 20s, a dwarf, a person so ratlike the term “human” seems generous.

The Hunchback hurries in, changing out of his stained, dirty work shirt and into his stained, dirty clown costume.

RAFFERTY
Oi lookadis, into the make-up then. I seem to have eaten all your cheese, haven’t I?

The Hunchback stops applying his make-up, hurt.

HUNCHBACK
Rafferty, I asked you not to, I was saving it-

RAFFERTY
Oi, right, but I have, and now you’re bein a bit cruel. And here I am, forced to sleep in a storage compartment with the likes of you, and you’re going to act like a selfish ponce and horde your cheese? It goes to show poverty don’t make you humble, I think.

The Hunchback continues applying his make-up, annoyed.

RAFFERTY (CONT’D)
I didn’t touch your bookie-doos, if that’s what you’re worried about.

The Hunchback finishes his make-up, and hurriedly opens a trunk: in it is his library, dozens of beaten up, worn out medical glossaries and study texts, lovingly taken care of.

RAFFERTY (CONT’D)
You know, suspicion is a sign of
weakness.

The Hunchback carefully places his new book in with the rest, grabs his juggling pins, and hurries out.

RAFFERTY (CONT’D)
Don’t bother with goodbyes!
Manners apparently another casualty
of your ailment!

INT. THE CIRCUS

The circus is going full swing. The Hunchback heads out with several other clowns, doing pratfalls, slapstick; he’s not bad, though it’s clear the exertion hurts his tender back.
 
5.

He settles into a juggling routine, and then is distracted by Lorelei starting her routine high above him.

BARNABY (O.S.)
If you’d all direct your eyes
skyward, you will see the work of
our amazing aerialists as-

Barnaby’s voice fades as The Hunchback focuses in: He sees that a rag has been affixed to the frayed bit of rope to reenforce it. The frayed rope stretches, swings, stretches-

BARNABY (CONT’D)
Get!	Get!

BARNABY Elliot, 40s, unpleasant and red-faced in his ringmaster’s uniform, shoves the Hunchback, startling him.

The Hunchback realizes all the other clowns have gone off, and rushes self-consciously out of the limelight.

EXT. THE HUNCHBACK’S RAIL-CAR - LATER

The Hunchback lays on the roof of the railcar, the train stretching out to either side. He begins quietly whistling.

The slats beneath him drop out, and the Hunchback falls ten feet to the dirt. He starts to stand, and Barnaby slaps him in the face.

BARNABY
You stay out of the center ring
with the rest of the clowns.

Barnaby storms off, leaving the Hunchback alone in the mud.


INT. THE HUNCHBACK’S RAIL-CAR - DAY

The train is in motion, rattling loudly up the tracks through the countryside. The Hunchback lays on his cot, reading through his new Percy’s Muscles of The Body, cross-referencing it to another book.

This one, green with leather binding, is marked “THOMPSON’S ANATOMY - For Doctors And Surgeons - Fifth Edition.”

The Hunchback mumbles something under his breath, and then scratches out a sentence in Percy’s with a piece of charcoal.

RAFFERTY
What’s all that grunting, there?

HUNCHBACK
I found an error in Percy’s. It’s got a lot of new information, but Thompson’s refutes this bit-
 
6.

RAFFERTY
Very, uh- inter-lectual. And what makes you think that it’s not Thompson that’s got it all wrong?

HUNCHBACK
Thompson’s is the absolute best,
with contributions from the
greatest doctors the world over,
 

RAFFERTY
No mistaking an ulna for a radius in Thompson’s, I know, I know.
 


HUNCHBACK
No mistaking an ulna for a radius in-

 
RAFFERTY
My god you really think you’re
smart, don’t you?	What an
embarrassment that must be.

The Hunchback sighs, complacent, but then notices something out of a slat in the side of the train. He hurriedly closes his books and rushes to a ladder going up to the roof.

RAFFERTY (CONT’D)
Hey!	What’s all this-

EXT. THE HUNCHBACK’S RAIL-CAR - ROOF

The Hunchback bursts out onto the top of the rail car, struggling against the wind for a moment.

The train stretches out like a great steel centipede, and beyond it, on the horizon...London. The city, still barely visible, sits in a puddle of smog, dense and brown-black.

Rafferty comes out of nowhere, shoving the Hunchback aside.

HUNCHBACK
Is that-

RAFFERTY
London....Beautiful, innit?

EXT. THE THAMES

The river Thames flows blue-black through the center of London, a city finding its feet as the first true metropolis.

We watch as the Hunchback helps unpack the train, and a vacant lot is transformed into a fairground. As the Hunchback helps to raise the big-top tent, thunder booms in the distant skies.

LATER...

The Big-Top is up. The circus is just starting to get going full-swing. People mill around outside, funneling in.
 
7.

A young man moves through the masses, uncomfortable in the crowd. The rain is worse. For a moment we see his face, in a flash of lightning.

This is VICTOR.


INT. THE CIRCUS - MOMENTS LATER

The stands are absolutely packed, and the crowd is rabid with excitement. The Hunchback looks out at the crowd from backstage, nervous, and then he gets the cue and rushes out with the rest of the clowns.

The clowns go through their act, and then Lorelei starts hers. The Hunchback retreats to backstage quickly, and watches from there.

HIGH ABOVE THE
CROWD...

She arcs through the air, her fingers catching the bar, swinging down, arcing out.

Back and forth she goes, flips and somersaults. The hastily mended rope supporting her stretches, swings, stretches-

Snaps.

Lorelei’s body drops out into a free-fall; midway down she strikes the support rigging cables of the trapeze act, twisting and ricocheting among them before being spat out-

THUD.

The audience gasps. Lorelei’s body lays still, one of her arms flopped out at crazy angle.

HUNCHBACK
Lorelei-

Her body heaves and rolls over, and he takes off running.

The Hunchback slides on his knees to kneel next to Lorelei.
She chokes and coughs, spitting blood.

HUNCHBACK (CONT’D) Lorelei, I’m here, it’s going to be-it’s going to be alright.

The Hunchback holds open her mouth, looking inside, then feels her ribs, then gingerly reaches around and feels her spine.

HUNCHBACK (CONT’D)
You can’t breathe, you can’t
breathe-

He checks her neck, finds nothing.
 
8.

HUNCHBACK (CONT’D)
I don’t know what to do, I don’t
know what to-

Suddenly, someone slides up in the dirt next to him. The Hunchback looks up and sees

VICTOR, 24, good-looking in a strange way, clean cut and tidy. For now. His words come out in a staccato flow, dry and fast, inexplicably easy to listen to.

VICTOR
What’s happened-
 

HUNCHBACK
Didn’t you see-
 


VICTOR
I was reading.

 
HUNCHBACK
Uh, she fell about thirty feet,
shoulder dislocated but no breaks
that I can find, the airway is
clear but she can’t breathe, she
can’t-

Victor is doing almost the exact same pat-down check that the Hunchback did.

VICTOR
Any previous injuries-

HUNCHBACK
Broken arm a year or so ago, broke her collar bone some time before that I think but I don’t-

Victor immediately begins tearing at Lorelei’s unitard.

HUNCHBACK (CONT’D)
What’re you-

VICTOR
Do this now or she dies.

The Hunchback quickly and deftly tears apart Lorelei’s top; her breasts are just barely covered by the edges of the fabric.

A huge purply-brown bruise is forming on her clavicle.

HUNCHBACK
My god-

VICTOR
Collar bone’s rebroken, it’s
pressuring her lung-

HUNCHBACK
What do we-
 
9.

VICTOR
We can’t do anything, we need tools to reset the bone, we need a-

HUNCHBACK
Is her pectoralis muscle still in
place?

Lorelei’s eyes roll back into her head.

VICTOR
Yes but-

HUNCHBACK
Do you have a a pocket watch?

VICTOR
Yes but-

HUNCHBACK
Give it to me.

Victor looks confused.

HUNCHBACK (CONT’D)
Do this now or she dies.

Victor fumbles out his watch, and the Hunchback grabs it, pressing it deeply under her collarbone with his fingers. He slaps the back of it, hard; Lorelei wheezes in agony.

VICTOR
WAIT!	The angle of the sternum,
due to that dislocation-

HUNCHBACK
Oh!	Yes, of course!

Victor takes hold of her dislocated right arm.

VICTOR
Ready, steady, go.

Victor wrenches the arm, and the Hunchback slaps the pocket watch-

POPCRUNCH.

Lorelei’s shoulder and collarbone both snap back into place. Lorelei gasps in air. The Hunchback laughs in joy and shock, but Victor seems totally nonplussed.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
That’s- that was brilliant.
(beat)
Why’re you wearing that make-up?

HUNCHBACK
I’m a clown. Lorelei, can you hear me-
 
10.

VICTOR
You’re a clown?	No you’re not,
you’re a physician, you just
performed a dry surgery with less
than a minute to prepare-

HUNCHBACK
I’m a- clown physician-

VICTOR
What?

A group from the circus surrounds them, clumsily heaving Lorelei up to lift her onto a stretcher; she squeals in pain.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Easy damn it- here, clown, help me.

Victor and the Hunchback lift Lorelei onto the stretcher.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Listen, you’re being wasted here.
I’m at a student at the Royal
College Of Medicine, I have a flat
in the West End, I’d be honored to
have you as a guest-

HUNCHBACK
Well- I, sir- I don’t know that I
could leave the circus, they need
their Hunchback-

VICTOR
You’re not a Hunchback.

HUNCHBACK
...what-

Barnaby blusters up, pushing the Hunchback backwards and separating him from Victor.

BARNABY
Who’re- you’re doctor then?

VICTOR
Yes, indeed-

BARNABY
Will she live?

VICTOR
Yes, but she needs the care of a hospital; Chisick Cross is just up the road, I can lead your men there.

HUNCHBACK
(quietly)
Chisick Cross.
 
11.

The men pick up the stretcher, and Victor starts to lead them out, the Hunchback staring after him.

VICTOR
Stay well, my friend, I shall
return for you tomorrow!

HUNCHBACK
Fr- friend?
(snapping out of it)
Your name, friend!	Your name!
Please!	My friend!	Your name!

Victor turns back from the crowd to shout to The Hunchback.

SLAM TO TITLE:
FRANKENSTEIN.

The title lurches forward, crackling with electricity as it emerges from the center of a violent lightning storm.

SLAM TO:


INT. THE HUNCHBACK’S RAIL-CAR

The Hunchback comes CRASHING through the door, shoved down by Barnaby, who enters raging. Rafferty perks up immediately.

BARNABY
WHAT DID I TELL YOU?

HUNCHBACK
I was trying to help-

Barnaby abruptly kicks the still downed Hunchback.

BARNABY
Idiot!

Barnaby follows the Hunchback’s gaze to the library trunk.

BARNABY (CONT’D)
Nathaniel!	Get in here!

The strong man enters.

BARNABY (CONT’D)
Get the trunk.

Nathaniel nods, and picks up the whole trunk under his arm.

BARNABY (CONT’D)
Come on.

The Hunchback stands, momentarily blocking the doorway.

BARNABY (CONT’D)
Get out of the way.
 
12.

The Hunchback stands resolute.

BARNABY (CONT’D)
GET OUT OF THE WAY.

The Hunchback backs down.

HUNCHBACK
Please, please don’t do anything to my books, Master Barnaby, I was just trying to help-

Barnaby and Nathaniel exit, the Hunchback following.


EXT. THE THAMES FAIRGROUND - CONTINUOUS

Rain is drizzling down from the night sky. Out come Barnaby and Nathaniel, the Hunchback in pursuit.

BARNABY
Dump them out.

Nathaniel dumps out the books into the mud.

HUNCHBACK
No, please just, I understand, I
do, just leave the books alone-

Barnaby turns, going to pick up a kerosene lantern. The Hunchback takes the opportunity to snatch up his copy of Thompson’s Anatomy from the muddy pile.

Barnaby returns, and dumps burning kerosene on the pile of books.

HUNCHBACK (CONT’D)
No, oh no, no!	No!

The Hunchback, screaming in real agony, prostrates himself at Barnaby’s feet.

HUNCHBACK (CONT’D) Please, put them out, put them out, you’re ruining them!

Barnaby shoves the Hunchback down, and notices the saved copy of Thompson’s.

BARNABY
What’s this?	Sneaky little rat!

HUNCHBACK
No no-

Nathaniel snatches it away.	Barnaby looks it over.

BARNABY
Fancy.
 
13.

HUNCHBACK
Please- it’s my favorite thing,
please Master Barnaby-

Nathaniel rips the book in half, and throws the shreds into the fire. The Hunchback slumps, jawing soundlessly.

BARNABY
Let that be a lesson to you.

Barnaby stalks off, leaving the Hunchback slumped in the mud.

RAFFERTY
Chin up, freak. What good’s a dream if you can’t wake up from it?

INT. THE HUNCHBACK’S CARRIAGE - LATER

Rafferty’s asleep. The Hunchback lays stalk-still, eyes straight ahead.

MORNING ON THE
FAIRGROUND.

We follow the Hunchback once more as he goes through his morning, helping to clean the circus up, reloading things onto the train, doing manual labor.

He repeatedly checks the edge of the city. No sign of Victor. The sun sets lower and lower in the sky.

Finally, the Hunchback gives up. He flops down in the dirt next to the damp pile of ash that was his collection.

VICTOR (O.S.)
Pardon my tardiness.

The Hunchback scrambles to stand in the mud, slipping and falling. Victor was RIGHT THERE, next to him.

HUNCHBACK
Master Frankenstein- I- hello!

VICTOR
Have you collected your things?
Let’s depart this place
immediately.

HUNCHBACK
I- I have no things, all my things
were-

The Hunchback glances at the pile of muddy ash.

VICTOR
Ah, I see.	Then, shall we?

HUNCHBACK
I- I’m under contract to the circus-
 
14.

VICTOR
Very well. Could you direct me to the circus manager, then?

HUNCHBACK
Well Master Barnaby is in the red
trailer, but-

Victor turns and immediately heads off.

HUNCHBACK (CONT’D)
Wait!	Wait!

INT. BARNABY’S TRAILER - MOMENTS LATER

Barnaby’s trailer is a cluttered mess of papers and equipment; Barnaby sits behind a desk, with a sexy young gymnast crawling all over him.

Victor enters and sits down on a chair opposite the desk.
Both the slutty gymnast and Barnaby are baffled.

VICTOR
Take your time.

EXT. BARNABY’S TRAILER - SECONDS LATER

The Hunchback is slowly approaching the trailer, when the slutty gymnast bursts out, storming off. The Hunchback retreats, then, doing his best attempt at stealth, he creeps up to the window, looking in.

Victor’s curt, speedy style of speech clashes harshly with Barnaby’s uneasy huckster sleaze.

BARNABY
-course he can’t leave.	He’s got
no money, no possessions-

VICTOR
As I said he would come to stay
with me.

BARNABY
Yes but- no, but- he’s not a
bonified person, you know?	He’s
just a-

VICTOR
Not a person, yes, by that do you
mean “not human-”

BARNABY
No, well- don’t be clever, awright? I just mean there’s nothing there to salvage, he doesn’t- I mean he doesn’t even have a name.
 
15.

VICTOR
Seems a bit of an oversight.

BARNABY
He’s travelled with the circus
since he was a boy-

VICTOR
And he’s been your doctor this
whole time-

BARNABY
Well he’s not a real doctor, after all-

VICTOR
And yet you’ve just said that he
has been effective in healing the
sick and injured, both animal and
human-

BARNABY
Those are just his tricks, he’s
under contract as a clown-

VICTOR
How exactly does one have a
contract without a name I wonder.

BARNABY
He owes the circus everything. We feed him, put clothes on his back-The doctor bollocks was just a fantasy for him, one that I dispelled last night, I think-

VICTOR
Yes, I noticed a pile of burnt
books on my way in-

BARNABY
Aye, but that was just a bit of a
row, me getting my frustrations
out’n’whatnot-

VICTOR
When you’re frustrated you burn books, fascinating, fascinating, listen, you’re a bit of a bastard, aren’t you?

BARNABY
‘Scuse me?
 
16.

VICTOR
Ignorant selfish cruel bastard, yes, I rather think you don’t know what kind of genius you have on hand and though you’ve been content to abuse him freely for a good long time you’ll have to accept that that’s coming to an end, and acquaint yourself-

BARNABY
Listen you posh ass-

VICTOR
-with the reality of the
Hunchback’s departure-

Barnaby stands, slamming his hands on his desk.

BARNABY
You shut your mouth-

VICTOR
-and find yourself a new doctor
willing to work for free and
tolerate random wanton violence-

Barnaby goes around the desk and grabs Victor by the collar, yanking him to his feet.

BARNABY
SHUT UP!

VICTOR
Sir, unhand me immediately.
(beat)
Are you deaf.	I said UNHAND ME IM-

EXT. BARNABY’S TRAILER - SECONDS LATER

Victor is HURLED out of the trailer, landing hard in the mud.

BARNABY
(red-faced, spitting)
Listen you impudent rich twat,
you’re not getting the bloody
Hunchback, and if you show your
face here again, if I so much as
sniff you, we’ll slit your bloody
throat and feed you to the bloody
horses!

VICTOR
What compelling imagery.

Barnaby stares at Victor, who seems completely unafraid.
This creeps Barnaby out, rightly so, and he slams the door.
 
17.

The Hunchback watches as Victor, not bothering to straighten himself at all, stalks off the fairground. The Hunchback tries to call out, but he’s suddenly grabbed by Barnaby.

EXT. THE ANIMAL CAGES - MOMENTS LATER

The Hunchback is roughly tossed into a cage by Barnaby, the door slammed behind him.

BARNABY
You are going nowhere. Enjoy your new quarters.

The Hunchback turns and sees his new roommate; a mangy, moth-eaten Bengal tiger. The Hunchback presses himself against the bars, scared.

NIGHT FALLS...

The circus is almost entirely cleaned up. The Hunchback is sitting in his cage when Rafferty walks by.

HUNCHBACK
Rafferty!	Rafferty!

RAFFERTY
What’s this, a talking tiger,
impossible!

HUNCHBACK
Do you know what’s happened to
Lorelei?

RAFFERTY
Aw, romanticisicizing are we? She’s probably dead, mate, you know that. These city doctors and their dirty hospitals and whatnot.

Rafferty picks up a rock and chucks it at the tiger; it immediately stands, bristling and snarling, and the Hunchback pulls back, terrified.

RAFFERTY (CONT’D)
Pleasant dreams.

Rafferty heads off, and the Hunchback tries to stay perfectly still, pressed hard against the door.

It’s no good. The tiger, enraged, has begun slowly creeping towards him, hunkered down in an attack position, growling, eyes filled with bloodlust.

Tension builds as the tiger creeps closer and closer...

There’s a series of clicks, and the door behind the Hunchback opens, sending the Hunchback toppling down to the dirt.

He looks up, startled and confused, to see Victor slam the cage shut.
 
18.

HUNCHBACK
What’re you- how did you-

Victor clacks together two pieces of metal in his hand.

VICTOR
Magnets.	Come on, no time to lose.

Victor heads off.	The Hunchback stands flummoxed.

HUNCHBACK
Wait!

VICTOR
What is it now?

HUNCHBACK
I can’t just- I can’t leave I-

VICTOR
You want to collect your things?

HUNCHBACK
Well- yes-

VICTOR
What things?

The Hunchback is at a loss.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Surely you don’t want to keep your pathetic clown costume-

HUNCHBACK
No, but-

VICTOR
What do you have here? Friends? I don’t believe it. Future? An early grave, dreams? Burnt in a pile in the mud. Do not waste either of our time with further deliberation.

It hits the Hunchback like a ton of bricks.

HUNCHBACK
...You’re right.

VICTOR
What?

HUNCHBACK
You’re right.

VICTOR
Well of course I’m right.

BARNABY
 
Oi.
 
19.

Barnaby is standing not far off.

BARNABY (CONT’D)
What in the hell do you think
you’re-

VICTOR
RUN.

Victor darts off immediately. The Hunchback hesitates, and Barnaby charges; the Hunchback hits the gas just in time, and Barnaby slips in the mud, crashing into the cage.

The tiger snarls and slashes him across the face, knocking him down.

BARNABY
AGH!	Bloody hell, stop- STOP HIM!
STOP THEM!

Four tumblers, still in their festive circus outfits, approach.

TUMBLER
What’s happened-

BARNABY
The Hunchback!	He’s attacked me
and taken the bank of the circus!
Get him!

The tumblers take off after Victor and The Hunchback, but Barnaby grabs one of them.

BARNABY (CONT’D)
Get Nathaniel.

BETWEEN THE
CAGES...

Victor and the Hunchback race through the maze of animal cages, with Victor immediately hitting a dead end.

The Hunchback grabs him and yanks him through a space between the cages, leading him to-

THE BACK OF THE
BIG TOP TENT

The Tumblers intercept them, and the two young men are forced to rapidly duck and dodge the men.

The tent is in the process of being taken down, the supports being pulled out, the canvas rippling and falling-

VICTOR
Come on.
 
20.

HUNCHBACK
No wait-

INSIDE THE
COLLAPSING TENT

The rippling canvas world comes crashing down around them, with the Hunchback and Victor sprinting through, dodging falling supports, several times nearly being crushed before bursting out into-

AN AREA
CLUTTERED WITH
EQUIPMENT

There are performers practicing their trade all over the place, and Victor and the Hunchback dodge and weave through jugglers, a lion tamer and some practicing contortionists.

TUMBLER
(lagging behind)

They’ve stolen the take, that’s all our pay!

A firebreather turns and blows out a huge jet of burning kerosene in their path; Victor and the Hunchback skid to avoid, but then must frantically scramble and flail to avoid knives hurled at them by a knife thrower.

The Hunchback catches one of the knives and flings it back at the fire-breather; it shatters his bottle of kerosene, which splashes onto the fires already burning, causing a HUGE BURST OF FLAME.

This new inferno separates Victor and the Hunchback from their pursuers; they get back up, sprinting towards the edge of the fairgrounds, the city, and freedom, when, as they’re passing a pile of weights-

BAM!	NATHANIEL THE STRONG MAN TACKLES THE HUNCHBACK!

Victor, slides in the mud, turning, and throws a running punch into Nathaniel’s face. It does NOTHING. The Hunchback twits Nathaniel’s injured wrist, and he screams in pain, releasing him.

Nathaniel stands and attacks Victor, throwing wild punches-

VICTOR
Stop stop stop stop

Victor grabs a thirty pound weight and heaves it up into Nathaniel’s ribs. There’s a crunch, and Nathaniel collapses.

Victor turns to run, but the Hunchback goes to Nathaniel.

HUNCHBACK
What’d you do, you broke his ribs-

VICTOR
Well I told him to stop.
 
21.

The tumblers reappear, running full tilt, blocking their easy exit to the city. Victor takes off running again, and after a moment’s panicked deliberation, the Hunchback follows, running

ALONGSIDE THE
TRAIN

Victor ducks through a break in the train, and the Hunchback follows, and again they find themselves in a narrow alleyway cluttered with circus equipment.

The tumblers follow, but where the Hunchback and Victor have to clumsily navigate around obstacles, the tumblers simply flip and cartwheel over them, rapidly gaining.

Rafferty, sitting in the Hunchback’s rail car, notices the oncoming chase. He laughs gleefully, and runs out ahead.

ALONGSIDE THE
THAMES

The Hunchback and Victor exit the fairgrounds, the tumblers nearly on top of them, running up a series of gantry’s onto a big bridge high over the river Thames, mostly empty at night.

...only to find that Rafferty’s beaten them there, drawing a knife as he steps to block their way-

RAFFERTY
Where’re you going in such a hurry, love?

The Hunchback turns and dives off the bridge. Victor, startled, takes a moment to pinch his nose and then follows, plummeting the thirty feet down into the water.

The tumblers stop, out of breath.

RAFFERTY (CONT’D)
Well don’t just stand there ye
idiots, after him!

The tumblers are “no.”

RAFFERTY (CONT’D)
Bloody ‘ell!	I’ll do it m’self!

Rafferty turns and dives off the bridge-

-but doesn’t look before he leaps, not seeing a trade boat coming out from under the bridge-

-WHAM! THIRTY FEET HEADFIRST INTO THE DECK.	It ain’t pretty.

FURTHER UP THE
THAMES...
 
22.

Dyes are being poured out into the river, turning a portion of it orange, blue and green. On a rocky shore, the Hunchback emerges, coughing up water.

Victor pulls himself up as well. Both young men are covered in green dye.

HUNCHBACK
I’m not in the circus.

VICTOR
(coughing)
What?

HUNCHBACK
I’m not in the circus.	I...I’ve
never been out of the circus.
(beat)
I’m free.	I’m free, I’M FREE, I’M
A FREE MAN-

VICTOR
Yes, very good, you are a very
free, very green man.

The Hunchback let’s out a crazy hoot of glee and starts splashing around in the water. Victor watches, indifferent.

EXT. VICTOR’S FLAT - LATER

Victor’s Flat in the West End is on a street crowded with buildings. It’s entirely empty at night; one bobby strolls up the street, but as soon as he’s gone...

Victor and the Hunchback come racing out of an alleyway, to the door of Victor’s flat.

INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - CONTINUOUS

Victor and the Hunchback burst in. Though Victor Frankenstein appears tidy and fastidious, his apartment is a window into his mind.

Though it is very big, the place is a mess. Victor must have some kind of hoarding disorder, as nearly every surface is covered with medical equipment, schematics, trinkets and other assorted junk.

The Hunchback looks around in wonder as Victor draws out a long syringe behind him.

HUNCHBACK
This is incredible.

VICTOR
Next order of business.

Victor slams his body-weight into the Hunchback’s body, driving him up against a wall.
 
23.

HUNCHBACK
What’re you doing, what’re-

VICTOR
This will hurt.

Victor plunges the needle deep into the Hunchback’s back, and he gasps in pain. He begins to pull back the plunger, and we see that the syringe is filling with murky yellow fluid.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
I told you before you’re not a hunchback, not a proper one anyway. You have an fluid pocket, probably caused by an abscess, here, beside the tenth vertebrae-

HUNCHBACK
It hurts it hurts-

VICTOR
Yes. It’s gone untreated nearly eighteen years, but I’m convinced that if we can just drain it, and-

Victor pulls out the needle, letting the Hunchback go, but then HURLS HIMSELF SHOULDER FIRST INTO THE HUNCHBACK’S SPINE, driving him hard back into the wall!

There’s a nasty wet cracking sound, and the Hunchback is suddenly fully upright, screaming in pain and then-

The screams stop. The Hunchback stirs against the wall, triggering a series of sickly pops and snaps. He’s standing up straight. Awkwardly, but straight.

HUNCHBACK
I- I- I-

Victor straightens himself, picking up something off the floor; it’s a very sleek, simple construction out of wire-frame, jointed in several places.

VICTOR
Now your musculature and bones will be struggling to reset themselves-

HUNCHBACK
I’m standing up.

The Hunchback’s eyes are wide and blank.

VICTOR
(beat)

Listen, I didn’t...I didn’t over-estimate your intelligence, did I, because-

HUNCHBACK
No, no, it’s just- I’m not in the
circus, and I’m standing up.
 
24.

VICTOR
...Yes, well, your musculature and bones will be struggling to reset themselves, so for the foreseeable future you’ll have to wear this. I spent the day building it; it was the reason for my tardiness, I again apologize for that.

He hands the Hunchback the back-brace.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Now I shall go to work in the
basement, as I have school in the
morning.	Library, study and
kitchen back there, your bedroom is
upstairs on the right, mine on the
left.	There’s a water heater in
the bathroom, get that green off
you, and for heaven sake do
something about your...Hair.

Victor goes to the door to the basement, and starts to go in, but then turns, and speaks somewhat slowly, carefully...

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Listen, I had- have a roommate,
Igor Straussman.	He’s a morphine
addict, a liar and a general waste
of space, who luckily is almost
never home.	So, should anyone
question your presence here, just
say that you’re Igor.	Yes?

The hunchback, a hunchback no longer, nods his head.

IGOR
I’m Igor.

VICTOR
Perfect.

Victor slams the door closed, leaving Igor standing in numb shock.

IGOR
I have a name.	I have a...library.

WE INTERCUT
BETWEEN

1.	Igor exploring the library, running his hands over the books, taking back stacks to his room...

2.	Igor sitting in the tub, washing off YEARS of caked on grime.

3.	Igor cutting his hair, and shaving off his disgusting, gnarly beard.
 
25.

Finally, Igor looks at his new self in the steamed-up bathroom mirror. He has the appropriate response.

IGOR (CONT’D)
Oh...wow.

SWISH TO:

Igor, in his room, carefully clicking on his back brace.

SWISH TO:

Igor opens his closet, finding tons of clothes.

SWISH TO:

Igor, now dressed, looking spectacular, is trying his new name out in the mirror. We time lapse cut between his experimentation.

IGOR (CONT’D)
Igor.	Igor.	Yeegor.	Eyegor.
(cut)
Hello, my name is Yaygor- no that’s bloody awful-
(cut)

Oh hello, Duchess, my name is Igor. An actor? Ha, duchess you flatter me, as a matter of fact, I’m a doctor-

He does a flourishing gesture and accidentally knocks a bunch of shit off the dresser.

IGOR (CONT’D)
Bloody hell-

SNAP TO:

Igor, in bed, fast asleep, surrounded by books.

CLOSE ON:

Fingers, fidgeting with a crucifix, turning it around and around, end over end.

TURPIN
A doctor you say.

INT. BARNABY’S TRAILER

Barnaby sits on his desk, nursing his bandaged face, watching through the window as doctors move Nathaniel into a carriage on a stretcher. Standing nearby, fidgeting with a little metal crucifix, is

Inspector RODERICK TURPIN, 40, respectable and distinguished, but with a strange, harried manner; he’s fraying around the edges, and there are bags under his eyes.
 
26.

BARNABY
A hokum doctor, ay. Always doing things you know, with the animals, es’periments and what have you-

TURPIN
And what again was the exact amount of money you said was missing?

BARNABY
Two hundred twenty quid.

TURPIN
Aha, would that be your whole
London take?

BARNABY
It would-

The door opens and ALISTAIR Oberon, 36, with an immaculately kept mustache, leans in.

ALISTAIR
Inspector Turpin, a word outside?

EXT. BARNABY’S TRAILER - CONTINUOUS

It’s nearing dawn. Alistair and Turpin pow-wow, Turpin closing the door in Barnaby’s face.

TURPIN
Well, he’s lying about the money.

ALISTAIR
How do you figure?

TURPIN
When would the hunchback have taken it? The footprints from the cage only go one way, the hunchback and its accomplice had no agenda here in the circus; they wanted to get to the city. Mister Barnaby’s just trying to swindle the insurance.

ALISTAIR
Indeed. What I came to tell you was, they’ve gotten the body cleaned up off the boat, and we’ve got conflicted reports. Two of the tumblers are saying the hunchback threw him off the bridge, two are saying he jumped by himself.

TURPIN
Oh he threw him, most definitely. The differences in story can be explained by delusion, heat of the moment.
(MORE)
 
27.

TURPIN (CONT'D)
There’s something rather strange
about all this though, don’t you
think?	Sinister.

ALISTAIR
How do you figure?

TURPIN
The cage shows no signs of tampering, yet the lock had opened. The wound to the face of the manager came from a claw, the injury to the strongman shows a super-human strength, not to mention there’s talk of the hunchback doing “science” as its primary pastime...You don’t find it somewhat ghoulish?

ALISTAIR
(beat, awkwardly) Inspector, I’ve been meaning to say...I, that is to say, all of us at the Yard- what happened with Claudia is a tragedy, sir.

TURPIN
...Beg pardon-

ALISTAIR
Your wife, Claudia; her passing was-

TURPIN
I’m sorry, what relevance does
Claudia have to this?

ALISTAIR
Well, none but-

TURPIN
Claudia is in Heaven.	Our
separation is merely temporary.
What is your implication about my
state of mind?

ALISTAIR
I didn’t mean-

TURPIN
Didn’t you?

Turpin smiles, seeming to realize how he was coming off.

TURPIN (CONT’D)
I have my daughter, my home, my
job.	This too shall pass,
Constable.

ALISTAIR
Yes sir.	Of course sir.
 
28.

TURPIN
(back to business)
There was an accident with a high
wire girl last night.	The
hunchback was involved, as I
understand it.	Have our men
question everyone in this place,
see if we can find out which
hospital she was taken to.

ALISTAIR
Yes sir.

TURPIN
Have the artist Walsh make up pictures, and then have prints made: one hundred of the Hunchback, fifty of his accomplice, and then have them posted everywhere from Westminister to Bethnal Green.

ALISTAIR
Yes sir.

TURPIN
There is a murderous hunchback
loose in London.	This will not
stand.

SLAM TO:

Igor curled up in his bed, morning light flooding in through the windows. He stirs.

MOMENTS LATER:

Igor discovers a note on his door.	“I- At school til 6. Ten
£	in the tin by the door, with your key. Buy dinner. -F.” Igor discovers the tin, along with the money and his key.
IGOR
(quietly)
Chisick Cross.

MOMENTS LATER:

Igor sits at a table consulting a big map of London; we can tell by the way he mumbles to himself, his eyes darting all over, that he’s absorbing the data, easily and quickly committing it to memory.

EXT. LONDON - MORNING

Igor steps out, but the hustle and bustle of the busy street in daytime scares the shit out of him, and he jumps back inside. A moment later he reemerges.
 
29.

We follow Igor as he walks up the street, in awe at everyone and everything.

IN A MARKET

Igor investigates every fruit, every meat, every spice. He’s having the time of his life. To entertain a few children, he juggles some apples. They’re wowed.

BACK ON THE
STREETS

Igor walks up the street, bag of groceries under his arm. He has a slightly more confident gait, now; he knows where he’s going and why.

INT. CHISICK CROSS HOSPITAL - MOMENTS LATER

The hospital is dank and dirty, really just one large warehouse style room filled with the sick and dying. Igor cautiously heads in, nervous, looking remarkably clean cut and pristine amongst all the filth.

He starts to walk in, when he’s called out by a gruff male nurse, dirty and frightening.

SCARY NURSE
Oi!	What’re you doing here?

Igor nearly cowers, like a scared animal.

IGOR
I- oh, I’m sorry, I’ll- I’ll go-

SCARY NURSE
You here from the medical school about buying bodies? We’ve got a few of’em pretty near to pass, I’m wagering, but-

Igor notices his reflection in a pool of dank water.

IGOR
I- No, I’m just looking for a
friend.	She was an aerialist, at
the circus.

SCARY NURSE
Friend.	Hah.	End of the line,
behind the curtains.

Igor smiles cautiously, still scared of the nurse, and then hurries down the row of beds, getting more and more excited as he approaches the curtained off area at the end-

-The curtains pull back, revealing Lorelei, nearly unconscious in her sickbed-

IGOR
 
Lorelei-
 
30.

-Inspector Turpin and Constable Alistair. Igor freezes, confused.

IGOR (CONT’D)
I’m sorry- I didn’t mean to- are
you doctors-

TURPIN
It’s quite all right. What brings you here?

IGOR
I just-	I just-

TURPIN
You know this girl?

IGOR
I- yes- no- I-

TURPIN
You knew where to find her, are you with the circus?

IGOR
I- No, I’m- just a friend-

Turpin looks to Lorelei, who clearly is in no shape to answer questions, much less recognize Igor. Turpin takes a step forward, backing Igor out of the curtained area.

TURPIN
Hold still a beat.

IGOR
I- what’re you-

Turpin has drawn out an artist’s depiction of Victor, and is consulting it against Igor’s features.

TURPIN
Interesting.	This girl is being
questioned in connection with the
rampage of the Blue Meringue
Hunchback last night on the Thames.

IGOR
(horrified)
The- the what-

TURPIN
What did you say your name was?

IGOR
I didn’t- Ig- I’m Igor-

TURPIN
Igor what.

IGOR
I- I’m sorry, I have to go-
 
31.

TURPIN
What’s the hurry?

IGOR
I have to go- I have to go-

Igor turns, nearly walking into a patient, rushing frantically out of the hospital. Constable Alistair pokes his head out.

ALISTAIR
Strange lad. Probably went to the circus and found himself love-struck, is what I take it. Hunted her down looking to be a benefactor, happens all the time with women like this.

TURPIN
Maybe.	Maybe.	“Igor.”	Hm.

OUTSIDE...

Igor comes crashing out into the street, running blindly, panicked. He tries to orient himself, and comes face to face with one of the WANTED: HUNCHBACK posters.

Horrified, he stumbles and trips into the street, spilling his groceries everywhere.

He scrambles to pick them up, and is nearly run down by a carriage, knocking him into the mud.

EXT. VICTOR’S FLAT - EVENING

Victor walks up the street, mumbling angrily. He stops in front of his door, composes himself, and then goes in.

INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - CONTINUOUS

VICTOR
Igor, I’m-

Victor stops dead. There’s a trail of mud on the floor, which he follows to find Igor sitting in his muddy clothes by the fire, hunched over in a caveman-like squat unbecoming of his new appearance.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Back to the mud so soon?

Igor looks up at him, eyes wide.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
I take it you’ve seen the posters then. Terrible depiction of me, have my hair all wrong. I’m new to this “criminal” life, but I never suspected they’d attack my vanity.
 
32.

IGOR
...They think I’m a murderer-

VICTOR
Well you’re not.	And they’re not
looking for you, are they?

Igor’s confusion is obvious.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
They’re looking for a piteous,
nameless hunchback.	A creature who
no longer exists.	I’ve seen to
that, haven’t I?

Igor hesitantly smiles; Victor has a way with words.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Dinner?

DINING ROOM -
LATER.

Victor and Igor are sharing a roast duck.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Of course I never put much faith in the professors. Father says most of them get their job through crony-ism as is; many of them I fear are drunks, idiots, or worse, close-minded people. I find I have a terrible fear of the close minded and ignorant as they seem to do the most damage to society as a whole.

IGOR
(happy about the duck)
Mhm.

VICTOR
Of course the curriculum is pathetically easy, laughably so; I could even laugh about it now, but to do so would expend more effort than I’m asked to expend of my studies, literally the act of saying “haha” would be more difficult than-

IGOR
So you like school then?

VICTOR
...I suppose I do.

IGOR
What brought you to the circus?
 
33.

VICTOR
(beat)
The animals.

IGOR
Oh, you like the animal tricks?
They were always my favorite too-

VICTOR
Living animals are a bore.	It’s
the dead ones I was after.

IGOR
Beg pardon?

VICTOR
For parts.
(in response to Igor’s
confusion)

I believe an explanation is in order. My interest in you did not stem from charity.
(beat)
I think it’s time you met my
monster.

INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - THE STUDY

Victor leads in Igor, turning on the lights. This room is cluttered, but more purposefully than the others; there’s a table in the center with several larger objects on it, covered by a sheet.
