INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - CONTINUOUS

Victor sits at his desk; he’s engrossed in drawing something, a blueprint. He’s fully absorbed in it, and doesn’t look up when Igor enters.

VICTOR
Where have you been? Do you really think it’s wise that you go gallivanting about on the town when there’s a manhunt-

FRANKENSTEIN
Victor.

VICTOR
I’m busy- father!?

Victor jumps up in such boyish haste he nearly knocks over his work table.

FRANKENSTEIN
Hello.

VICTOR
You- you came for Christmas-

FRANKENSTEIN
No, Victor.	Sit down.

VICTOR
I- yes, of course, please.

FRANKENSTEIN
(to Igor)
Leave.

Igor looks to Victor; shit, there goes his chance to confront him. He goes up the stairs, but then stops at the top, surreptitiously eavesdropping as Victor and his father sit by the fire.

VICTOR
Father, I’m so excited to tell you, I’ve had great breakthroughs with my experiments-

Frankenstein talks into the fire, never once addressing Victor; throughout their discussion Victor leans further and further forward in his chair, trying to force himself into his father’s eye-line.

FRANKENSTEIN
I don’t care.

VICTOR
My theories- listen father, my
theories, they were all correct-
 
62.

FRANKENSTEIN
I don’t care about your disastrous experiments or your poorly researched theories-

VICTOR
Haha, yes, but that’s what I’m-

FRANKENSTEIN
Victor, silence.

Victor falls quiet, the smile dripping off of his face.

FRANKENSTEIN (CONT’D) When you were smaller I always had a great anxiety about you. Your mother and myself always saw that you had a capacity to ruin things. Do you remember all the things you ruined.

VICTOR
I-

FRANKENSTEIN
Do you recall what I said about
your experiments.

VICTOR
Yes-

FRANKENSTEIN
I said your experiments were of ill repute. I told you not to become a doctor. The modern doctor is a wasteful man, I said, many times. He cannot accept that death is the inevitable, inescapable conclusion of life. He tries to “beat the reaper.” This is futile. I have told you this many thousands of times throughout your childhood, as it is a lesson, as you know, that cost me a great deal.

VICTOR
But- you see that’s what I wanted
to tell you, I’ve done it- I mean I
can show you, I’ve finally...

Claus stares at Victor. Victor freezes in the gaze of the one person he clearly most wants to impress..

FRANKENSTEIN
Yesterday I received a telegram,
informing me that you are to be
called before the board of
directors of the college.	They say
you neglect schoolwork.	They say
you behave strangely.	They intend
to expel you.	Did you know this?
 
63.

VICTOR
I- expel me, they can’t-

FRANKENSTEIN
Can’t they?

VICTOR
...Father...if you just listen to
me, I...I...

FRANKENSTEIN
You what?

VICTOR
I-

FRANKENSTEIN
Luckily you are of age where I no longer need to take responsibility for your faults and failings. If the board asks me to speak in your hearing, I will tell them you never should have been admitted in the first place.

Victor sits staring at his father.

VICTOR
I...I’m so sorry father.

FRANKENSTEIN
Apologies.	Are.	Meaningless.	How
many times must I tell you.

Frankenstein stands up and leaves, just like that, leaving Victor sitting, silent. Igor, upstairs, clearly doesn’t know what to do next.

INT. SCOTLAND YARD - TURPIN’S OFFICE

Turpin’s office is messy, clearly the den of a hardworking man. He’s sitting at the desk alongside his daughter REBECCA, 9 years old. She’s adorable, currently playing with Turpin’s magnifying glass.

He leans to and makes a face at her through it. She laughs, delighted.

Alistair enters, holding a sheet of paper.

ALISTAIR
Results on the shoe are back,
Inspector- oh, hello Miss Rebecca-

REBECCA
(peering at him through
the magnifier)
Hello Mister Alistair.
 
64.

TURPIN
I couldn’t find a sitter.	Busy
night.	Let me see.

Turpin grabs the list, going over it.

ALISTAIR
Custom job, like you thought.
Tailor made by Red Crescent
Cobblers, only six made in that
size in the last two years-

TURPIN
Ha.	Well would you look at that.
(flips the list over)
“Igor.”

INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - VICTOR’S ROOM - LATER

The sun is setting. Victor is staring at it through his window. He’s a million miles away, lost in the labyrinth of his own brain, mumbling to himself.

IGOR
So what’s this then?

Victor’s startled; he turns to see Igor holding the blueprint he was working on.

VICTOR
Finnegan’s project. An artificial man, a modern Prometheus-...it’s stupid. The research is pointless.

Igor looks at Victor; he’s pathetic, sitting there like a child. His father’s words split him down the middle. Igor seems to steel himself...

...but then stops, his own kindheartedness winning out.

IGOR
It’s also not big enough.

VICTOR
...what-

IGOR
Oh nothing, never mind-

VICTOR
No, I- what do you mean?

Igor turns the blueprint around; it’s a human body, or rather, instructions for building one.

IGOR
Gordon was fast, sure...but he
couldn’t muster much strength at
all.	Seemed to be having a hard
time breathing-
 
65.

Victor perks up just a tiny bit.

VICTOR
Embolisms, in the lungs, of course! With that much raw energy coursing through the body the organs overtaxed themselves, would’ve been dead in ten minutes shovel or no!

IGOR
But if we’re going to build something that we want to live and stay alive, we’re going to need more energy. Tons more energy.

VICTOR
Yes.	But what could possibly
generate-

IGOR	VICTOR
Lightning?	Lightning!

Victor sits up scrambling through his messy desk.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
I have just the thing- one of my
earliest designs for the Lazarus
sucked energy out of the air,
surely a larger version could,
create a static burst similar to
lightning, or, in theory-

He finds the blueprint he was looking for; a menacing spikey mad science rig labelled “The Cloud Hook.”

VICTOR (CONT’D)
How would it handle the energy- I
mean we can’t simply make bigger
organs-

IGOR
Two sets of lungs.

VICTOR
Ha! Aha! Yes, brilliant! Not just lungs, either, two hearts, as well, keep the blood flowing through that bigger body!

IGOR
Shall I get some whiskey-

VICTOR
Yes!	Do that!

IN THE LIVING
ROOM, LATER...

Victor has pulled a chalkboard into the living room. The two of them are drinking, laughing, diagramming their creation.
 
66.

IGOR
He’ll need a broad head- maybe an
elephant skull-

VICTOR
Yes, to house all the electrical
stabilizing equipment- maybe we
could just make our own skull-

IGOR
Make our own-

LATER...

Drunker.

IGOR (CONT’D)
The bones will have to be
reenforced; we can shape elk, maybe-

VICTOR
And we can give him a great...great flat head-

IGOR
Yes, and then, install, a chess
board across the top of his head-

VICTOR
Yes so that I shall beat you at chess whilst riding on the shoulders of my glorious behemoth-

LATER...

Drunkest. Igor holding himself up on the board, Victor perched awkwardly in the chair, both of them unable to talk or breathe through laughter.

IGOR
GREAT- GIANT BOSOMS- ALL OVER-

VICTOR
YES AND WE SHALL- SHALL INSTALL
SADDLES TO RIDE ON THE- BREASTS-
GIANT BREASTS AND PEOPLE WILL say
“here come Igor and Victor and
their masterpiece of tits”-

SLAM TO:

Igor, fast asleep on the floor of his bedroom. There’s noises from downstairs. Igor, shoeless and bedraggled, checks the clock: 3:46 AM.

INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - CONTINUOUS

Igor cautiously makes his way down the stairs, seeing Victor, fully dressed, headed out the door.
 
67.

IGOR
Where are you going?

VICTOR
Oh, you’re awake. I didn’t want to disturb you. Finnegan’s called us in for our second test.

IGOR
What?	Now?

VICTOR
Yes, apparently it’s quite urgent.

IGOR
Well let me-

VICTOR
Igor, there’s no time.

Victor turns and starts to head out the door.

IGOR
But I don’t even- wait!	Victor!

SMASH TO:

Igor, still shoeless, in a carriage next to Victor as it goes through the streets. He looks understandably pensive.

INT. DETTWEILER’S LAB

It’s a big warehouse space; all the lights are out, except for a few at the back, which faintly illuminate moving figures.

Igor and Victor enter at the darkened side, and bright white electrical bulbs flicker to life, revealing a pristinely clean, high tech laboratory and machine shop.

Over at the far end, we can see Finnegan, standing around a table with a bunch of well-appointed men in labcoats.

FINNEGAN
Excellent! You made it. This way, right this way.

Finnegan beckons them, and Victor starts quickly moving through the lab, Igor behind him, amazed by all the different equipment.

They approach the crowd of scientists, and Finnegan smiles; they’re gathered around a little dirty bundle on the table.

FINNEGAN (CONT’D)
So glad you could make it. This is Fritz Dettweiler, the man I told you about, Victor. Fritz, this is Victor Frankenstein, Igor Straussman.
 
68.

Igor awkwardly extends a hand to Fritz DETTWEILER, late 40s, a gaunt, wispy German man with the countenance of a skeleton. He glances at Igor’s outstretched hand, disinterested.

DETTWEILER
I do not normally work with a
partner, much less two.	Young
Finnegan reached me through his
father’s company.	He has told me
you young men can do things,
wondrous things with flesh.
Perhaps too wondrous to be
believed.

FINNEGAN
Dettweiler’s an engineer.

DETTWEILER
The foremost engineer in Europe.

VICTOR
That seems a bit of a reach.

DETTWEILER
As does the ability to reanimate
the dead.

Victor just smiles.	Dettweiler sighs.

FINNEGAN
Here, you’ll see, you’ll see...

Finnegan goes around the table to the bundle, and unwraps it, Igor and Victor leaning in. It’s...he is a dead infant, not even a year old. Its little body is cold and gray, but not gruesome.

FINNEGAN (CONT’D)
Dead not even six hours.

Igor pulls back in revulsion, whilst Victor merely looks to Finnegan.

VICTOR
Where did you get this?

FINNEGAN
One of my work-studies.	I very
charitably decided to work
Christmas Eve, and lo and behold,
the Baby Winthrop passed on.

VICTOR
The parents?

FINNEGAN
Lower class people; the Winthrops, of Devonshire road. I’ve told them I’ve taken the baby to the mortuary.
 
69.

Dettweiler raises a marble.

DETTWEILER
This was found in the infant’s
throat.	They should have watched
their child with more care.

Dettweiler smiles at Igor, who cringes.

FINNEGAN
We’ve got a private room in there set up with all the equipment from the blueprints you gave me.

IGOR
You gave him your plans?

Victor, ignoring Igor, nods in agreement.

DETTWEILER
So.	Can you do it?

VICTOR
Absolutely.

INT. DETTWEILER’S LAB - PRE-OP

Victor and Igor are washing up.

IGOR
Tell me it will work. Tell me the baby will be all right.

VICTOR
Of course it will work. The bio-electric energy from the fork should heal any of the cells lost from the subject’s period of death--

IGOR
Victor, we don’t know if-

VICTOR
I	do.
(beat)

I’ve resurrected rats before, and they came out...you know, mostly alright, and that was before I had your gifted hands. You can save a life or let it disappear.

WE ENTER A
MELANCHOLY,
SOLEMN SEQUENCE

Victor and Igor, in a private room cramped with sleeker, more high tech versions of Victor’s equipment, lay the Baby Winthrop on the table, and begin the process of prepping it.
 
70.

We watch as they give it various injections, stretch the body to hold off rigor mortis, as Igor uses his deft skills as a surgeon to insert electrodes all over the body.

Igor attaches the Lazarus Fork bolts into the baby’s neck.
Finnegan, Dettweiler and his scientists surround the table.
Igor stands back, nervous.

Victor primes the machines, and without ceremony, fires the dynamos.

Nothing happens, and then the electrical wiring all over the baby lights on fire. This gets laughs from the scientists.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Igor, help, quickly-

Igor and Victor tear away all the equipment, putting out the fires...

...to reveal the Baby Winthrop, uninjured and very much alive. Finnegan looks to Dettweiler, enormously pleased with himself; the scientists quietly lose their shit.

DETTWEILER
Mein gott.	Incredible.

Igor looks to Victor, who raises an eyebrow: “Told you so.”

FINNEGAN
Gentlemen, if you’d excuse us.

The scientists move out into the lab.

FINNEGAN (CONT’D)
Well alright then, which one of you is going to be a sport and kill it?

VICTOR
I will.

IGOR
I- you- WHAT!?	VICTOR-

FINNEGAN
What’s this tizzy?	What do you
want me to do?	Bring it back?
(tinkling laugh)
Of course we have to kill the infant. I’m afraid this isn’t negotiable; I’d really be much more comfortable knowing the thing was properly disposed off.

VICTOR
It’s just an experiment, Igor. We must make sacrifices-

IGOR
I won’t let you- I won’t stand by-
 
71.

VICTOR
YOU WILL.	YOU WILL STAND BY.	YOU
WILL GET OUT OF THE WAY-

FINNEGAN
My word, for the money I’m now
going to put behind you, you can
resurrect a dozen babies-

IGOR
I- I- I- you bastard, you bloody
monstrous bastard-

VICTOR
Get out of here.	Now.

Igor looks at the baby one last time, but his natural meekness overpowers him, and he storms out.

INT. DETTWEILER’S LAB - MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Igor pushes through the scientists, making a beeline for the door.

EXT. DETTWEILER’S LAB - CONTINUOUS

Igor storms out into the empty, snowy street, crying, raging, he stomps back and forth.

NO!	HE WON’T STAND FOR THIS!


INT. DETTWEILER’S LAB - MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Igor CHARGES back in, Finnegan stepping in front of him- Igor shoves him aside, going towards the surggery door, which bursts open. Victor holds the dingy little bundle.

VICTOR
Make yourself useful and dispose of this.

Victor slams the bundle to Igor’s chest. Igor stares at him in horror. Victor is emotionless, cold...

The world seems to fall away for Igor. Everything goes silent.

BEGIN SONG: “FIX
YOU”, BY
COLDPLAY.

Clutching the bundle to his chest, he turns and walks out the door.
 
72.

EXT. DETTWEILER’S LAB - CONTINUOUS

Igor slams the door behind him, breathing hard, tears streaming down his face. He stares out into the predawn fog, his mind racing...

The Baby Winthrop coos. Igor looks down: The baby, though unconscious, is alive. He blinks in shock. A scrap of paper is tucked in with the baby.

Scribbled in familiar handwriting: “I - How little you think of me. - F.”

Igor let’s out a little gasping laugh, and then looks around in disbelief.

EXT. LONDON - DAWN

The snow falls lightly, the crowd bustles, and Igor emerges, carrying the baby. He walks across half the city, purposeful, not pausing; Christmas morning is peaceful, but we watch as the streets slowly crowd with people.

We see him ask several strangers for directions, finding his way, crossing bridges, going down alleys, finally reaching...

EXT. WINTHROP RESIDENCE

Igor stops outside the house, and looks down at the baby. He goes up to the door of the rickety little brownstone house, knocks, no reply.

And then MR. WINTHROP answers the door; the man is a wreck, pale, red-eyed, bereaved. He sees Igor; he speaks. Igor doesn’t respond.

Instead, he simply holds out the baby.

Winthrop stares at it, and then calls out, and again, and again. Igor hands the baby to him and he nearly faints.

MRS. WINTHROP appears in the doorway.

She sees the baby, and simply stares in shock. Mrs. Winthrop clutches onto both her child and her husband as Igor slowly backs away from the door. The reunited family collapses in a sobbing heap in their door frame.

They begin to call after Igor, but Igor, taking one last long look at them...vanishes into the crowd.

EXT. THE THAMES

Igor stands staring out over the water, crying, breathing hard, laughing and talking to himself. He seems to realize something, and then takes off running.
 
73.

EXT. THE STREETS OF LONDON

Igor runs, and runs, and runs, a man on fire. He stops, winded, to loosen his back brace.

EXT. BARON BOMINE’S RESIDENCE - MOMENTS LATER

Igor runs up from the street, through the garden, up to the front door, knocks frantically, waits, knocks again, waits, the butler answers, Igor speaks frantically, the butler goes away, Igor waits, tries to fix his disheveled appearance, makes it worse, Lorelei appears in the doorway-

Igor grabs her and kisses her.

After a startled moment, she kisses him back. They stand in the doorway, laughing and holding each other.

EXT. VICTOR’S FLAT - LATER

Igor approaches, divinely happy, driven, heading towards the door, when someone grabs his sleeve...

...It’s Turpin.

CUT “FIX YOU”
ABRUPTLY.

TURPIN
Hello again, Igor.

INT. VICTOR’S FLAT

Igor is bringing out tea, his hands shaking. Turpin is settling down opposite Victor by the fire, Constable Alistair over by the window.

Victor now sits in the chair his father sat in, with Turpin in the smaller seat.

TURPIN
Pleasant Christmas?

VICTOR
Indeed.	We went caroling.	We’re
both very tired-

TURPIN
Whose coach was that I saw drop you off, Victor?

VICTOR
My father’s.	He took me for lunch.

Turpin smiles.
 
74.

TURPIN
Igor, would you mind showing me
your shoes?

VICTOR
Not just yet, Inspector.	What’s
all this about?

ALISTAIR
It’s in relation to the Blue
Meringue Circus Hunchback Murder.

VICTOR
What’s his shoe got to do with it?

TURPIN
Interesting you said “shoe” rather than “shoes.”
(beat)
Something wrong, Mr. Straussman?

VICTOR
Oh!	That’s right!	I do recall
reading about it: the hunchback
what threw the dwarf off the
bridge.
(beat)
Wasn’t there talk of...witchcraft?

ALISTAIR
Well, we don’t give credence to
occult speculation-

TURPIN
Not officially.

VICTOR
Oh, but unofficially? You believe in...witches, Inspector? Goblins?

TURPIN
Oh, no, nothing so extreme. But I do believe there are punishments for dealing with the devil. Just as there are punishments for lying to police officers.

Victor and Turpin seem to lock in on each other.

VICTOR
Ah, yes, but police officers
actually exist, you see.

TURPIN
Funny, Victor.	But, in the end,
things have a way of catching up,
even with the funny people.	Now
let me see his shoes.
 
75.

VICTOR
To see his shoes I’m afraid I’m
going to have to see a proper
search warrant.

TURPIN
What’re you playing at Victor?
What do you have to hide?

VICTOR
You’ve twice mentioned punishment
without specifying who would be
meting it out.

TURPIN
I inferred our Lord.

VICTOR
Oh yes, “God,” hm, well, I’m sure
if god existed I would be in far
deeper trouble than I am now-

TURPIN
I’m not here to convert you, Victor-

VICTOR
No, indeed, go ahead, it’s a cause without a champion. Tell me more about this “god” fellow who apparently has some vendetta against me-

TURPIN
I didn’t come to debate religion
with a child scientist-

VICTOR
What was the insult there, “child” or “scientist-”

TURPIN
I know your bloody type, Frankenstein, all sure of their theories and analysis, you listen, my wife Claudia, bless her soul, she trusted in that poppycock and what’d it get her, dead, said it was appendicitis well look how far it got her knowing the name, how much money we spent on the medicines, my daughter crying all night, all the treatments and she’s still dead isn’t she, she’s still dead because God was punishing me wasn’t he, for my folly, and her for parlay with the gypsies come up from White Chapel, and you think you’re so smart, well you’re not so smart and I’m onto you and I’ll-

VICTOR
My god.	You’re mad.
 
76.

Turpin stops dead at this, trailing off and seeming to take Victor’s accusation under very serious consideration.

ALISTAIR
Roderick, don’t-

VICTOR
Easy constable. Don’t agitate the loony-

Turpin flips the tea-tray, startling Igor, but Victor doesn’t flinch. He stands there breathing hard for a moment.

TURPIN
I’ll be back here with a warrant.

VICTOR
I look forward to that.	Will you
be bringing the apostles along as
muscle?

TURPIN
We’ll see.	We’ll see who’s so
bloody smart.

Turpin goes to leave, but stops for a moment, taking a hard look at Igor, who’s frozen in terror. Turpin shakes his head, mutters something, and storms out, Alistair following.

VICTOR
Well. That was exciting. The two of us both quite mad, shouting at each other. Stuff of legend.

EXT. VICTOR’S FLAT - CONTINUOUS

Turpin rages out into the street, Alistair in tow.

TURPIN
I want a damn warrant, call me mad-

ALISTAIR
INSPECTOR, I can’t vouch for you, we saw no sign of any foul play and the shoes alone aren’t enough-

TURPIN
Did you see how they froze up when we mentioned the shoes, they’re hiding something-

ALISTAIR
I agree that their behavior was
suspicious, but-

TURPIN
Sus- suspicious!?	He arrived in a
Finnegan Industries coach, and then
lied!	THEY LIED to my FACE.	To
our faces.
(MORE)
 
77.

TURPIN (CONT'D)
And coupled with Victor’s
combativeness, his aggression...And
the basement door, open, Straussman
staring at it in fear the whole
time.	A warrant isn’t good enough,
we need a raid.	Will you back me
if we go to Chief Inspector?

ALISTAIR
...Yes.	I will.

There’s a strange beat, Turpin trying to collect himself.

TURPIN
Listen, Alistair, I got excited in there but...
(beat)
I’m not mad.

It comes out sounding more like a question than a statement.


INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - VICTOR’S ROOM

Victor is going through his closet, getting dressed, while a concerned Igor is nearby.

IGOR
Did you have to needle him like
that?

VICTOR
The man was an unstable sideshow,
of no threat to us-

IGOR
We had a saying back in the circus, “Never feed a lion when it’s hungry.”

VICTOR
Enough.

Victor pulls on his coat.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
We’re already late for my hearing. Apparently they can’t expel me quickly enough.

Victor seems to choke on this last sentiment.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Listen, would you...come with me.

IGOR
To the hearing?
 
78.

VICTOR
Yes. I intend to give them a piece of my mind and I’d rather- I’d rather not do it alone.

SMASH TO:

Victor, silent and meek, on a raised platform.


INT. ADMINISTRATION ROOM

It’s beautiful but very sparse, Victor standing alone in a sea of negative space, with the board of directors across the room from him behind a desk. His father sits nearby, staring out a window. Igor stands off to the side, in a corner.

DR. CLIVE, the head of the board, old and dignified, is reading from a list.

DR. CLIVE
-students find Victor to be in turns rude, obnoxious, sinister, unpleasant, a loudmouth, a braggart, a false intellectual and a liar. For every essay Victor is assigned he returns spurious hokum regarding raising the dead, or rantings and blueprints regarding his apocryphal electrical creations. When reminded that this was not an engineering college, Victor was quoted as saying “The body is merely a machine. If you don’t understand this you are an ignorant nincompoop who is better off spending his day in a barn, perfecting the art of milking a male horse.”

At this, there’s some hubbub at the board desk.

VICTOR
D-...D- Doctor Clive, Doctor
Cushing, Doctor Brannaugh, I j-

DR. PRICE
Dr. Frankenstein, have you anything to say?

Frankenstein thinks.

VICTOR
F- Father-

FRANKENSTEIN
Only that I am shocked that he was able to attend this long.
 
79.

DR. PRICE
Very well. Victor Frankenstein, for the afore stated grievances,I hereby state that you are expelled from the Royal College of Medic-

IGOR
You leave him alone damn it!

VICTOR
Igor, don’t-

IGOR
Has this reputable institution have no eye for real intelligence, real innovation, real revolution?

Surely a real medical school would have this man performing his experiments in its hallowed halls, rather than in the dingy confines of a basement. Time will prove all of you fools, fools, and show this man to be a genius!

Victor looks to be in a state of shock. Igor’s flustered, breathing hard. The medical board exchange glances.

DR. PRICE
I’m sorry but...Who are you,
exactly?

INT. COACH - TEN MINUTES LATER

Victor and Igor sit in the coach as it rattles up the street.
Victor has his head pressed against the window, staring out.
Igor is clearly nervous he’s screwed up.

Victor speaks without looking up, clearly lost in his own thoughts.

VICTOR
He wasn’t always like that you
know.
(beat)

I had a brother. Henry. He was older than me by three years, but he never, he never bullied me the way the boys at schools were bullied by their brothers, he was...kind. He was intelligent, more than kind he was intelligent, my parents had such great hopes for him. One night, I went out in the snow, to watch a storm, I- I didn’t understand the danger, but Henry did. He came out looking for me, and Kent does get cold, it does get so cold at night.
(shivers, upset)
(MORE)
 
80.

VICTOR (CONT'D)

I found my way home, but they found Henry the next morning....not Dead

yet, but, dying. My father rushed to town to get medicine, but by the time he got back it was too late.

Henry had...died. Only moments before my father returned. He was fourteen.
(beat)
It changed my father. Broke him. He lost hope in everything, became...you’ve seen him. You’ve seen what he became. And I suppose it changed me, too. I could no longer, like so many do, live in fear of death, in fear of life, these mystical things. No. I had to see them made tangible. Henry deserved a second chance. My father deserved a second chance, everyone deserves a second chance. And now I’ve built something that can finally...

Victor trails off, staring out the window.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
What you did back in the college. No one has ever. No one has ever. I have only ever had one friend. I am happy that it is you.

Igor nods.	Then, after a hesitant beat...

IGOR
Listen, Victor...I have faith in you. I have faith in your ideas, and I understand you think Finnegan is the only way to continue our work, but I ask you to reconsider. His motives are unclear, his lack of morality frightens me, and the fact that you’ve already given him most of your designs, our designs, scares me most of all. So if I truly am your partner...If I truly am your friend...

Victor seems to osmose this for a moment, taking it in.

VICTOR
It’s all so dire now.	All so dire.

INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - NIGHT

Igor is nervously sketching out a design for a lightweight, collapsible wheelchair. He hears a sound from upstairs and waits, looking; it’s clear Victor has gone into his room and not come out for some time.

There’s a knock at the door.
 
81.

IGOR
(whisper-yell)
Victor!	Victor!

Nothing. No response. Igor tries to look out the window, and can’t see anything. Tension builds. He goes and picks up a fireplace poker, then moves slowly to the door; the knock comes again, startling him.

IGOR (CONT’D)
(one last try)
Victor!

No response.	Igor swings open the door and sees-

LORELEI! Igor yelps, dropping the poker behind the door, and then trying clumsily to camoflage his spazz-out by straightening his hair.

One of Baron Bomine’s carriages is parked in the street behind her.

LORELEI
(laughing)
Did I scare you?

IGOR
Yes, very much-

LORELEI
I thought since you were so bold in the morning, I should be bold tonight...
(beat)
Will you come with me to Baron
Bomine’s Christmas ball?

Igor looks hesitant; he glances back at Victor’s locked door at the top of the stairs, then at Lorelei, then back at the door, then Lorelei...

INT. BARON BOMINE’S RESIDENCE - BANQUET ROOM

Igor and Lorelei are at a long table, filled with rich and swanky looking high society types. Baron Bomine is seated nearby. A NOBLEMAN is talking animatedly his friends, Igor quietly listening and drinking.

NOBLEMAN
Hospitals in general to me seem an indecent idea; piling the sick together like that, just seems against common logic. People go in with a broken leg, and come out dead from pneumonia.

IGOR
S’not the hospitals.
 
82.

NOBLEMAN
Beg pardon?

Igor looks to Lorelei, horrified at having spoken up, but she urges him on.

IGOR
A good modern hospital should never have these problems. It’s just that in a city of this size, many of the hospitals are unclean or poorly kept; the notion of a hospital is a positive one, it’s the execution, the lack of public support, the acceptance of under-qualified doctors and nurses that allows the sort of infective cross pollination you’re describing.

NOBLEMAN
Mm. Probably quite right, I suppose; these days we seem to have wealth of medical students, and a dearth of real physicians. Are you a doctor?

IGOR
I...I uh-

LORELEI
Yes, he was trained but never got a degree.

NOBLEMAN
I say, are you looking for a job? I run a company up north; it would be a real boon to have someone on staff who knows a bit about medicine, especially a respectable man like yourself.

IGOR
I...Uh, I would-

NOBLEMAN
No need to give me an answer right away. I’ll look into it. What did you say your name was?

Igor blanks out for a moment, shocked at the opportunity.

LORELEI
Igor.

Igor smiles excitedly at Lorelei, who squeezes his hand.

LATER...
 
83.

Igor is being introduced to various high society people; at first, he looks nervous, but by the third intro, he’s laughing, smiling, cracking jokes...

LATER...

They’re dancing; it’s all strict ballroom, but Igor and Lorelei are adding goofy little circus flourishes that are drawing positive attention. Baron Bomine, watching on, looks pleased.

Igor grunts, suddenly pained.

LORELEI (CONT’D)
Are you alright?

IGOR
Yes, I just need a minute.

INT. BARON BOMINE’S RESIDENCE - IGOR AND LORELEI’S ROOM

A frustrated Igor wrestles off his jacket and shirt. He tugs on the back-brace, finally fully taking it off. He realizes with a start that he’s fine without it; he’s outgrown it.

Pondering this, folds up the brace into a pocket-size ball, and stares at, rolling it around in his hand. It is Victor.

Lorelei enters, shutting the door behind her. Igor shows her the folded back-brace.

Lorelei turns and locks the door, then rushes Igor, tackling him; they fall onto the bed, giggling and making out...it slowly turns more sexy...

INT. BOMINE CARRIAGE - MORNING

The carriage rumbles up the road, Igor happy in the backseat clearly deep in thought. They turn onto Victor’s street, and Igor looks up to see-

EXT. VICTOR’S FLAT - CONTINUOUS

The place is SWARMING with cops. Bobbies are everywhere, pounding a battering ram against the front door, prying at the grates over the windows. Turpin’s among them.

IGOR
Go, go, up there.

The carriage pulls around the corner, and Igor hops out, ducking immediately behind a fruit cart. The crowd is distracted by the bobbies, and Igor sneaks around, ducking through the crowd, trying to move towards an alley to the right of the house.

Turpin’s head snaps up, pinpointing Igor’s quick movements in the crowd.
 
84.

TURPIN
(mumbling)
There you are.

Turpin takes off running after Igor, Alistair staying behind with the bobbies.

He runs hard, around the corner, around the building to the

BACK ALLEY

Where he nearly catches Igor. The alley is cluttered with garbage, crates and water piping. Igor manages to snake through, vault over, or smash aside the obstructions; Turpin can barely keep up.

Without the back-brace, this clown can move.

Igor rounds the corner, kicking a box of garbage into Turpin’s way, and then down a short, hidden set of stairs to Victor’s back door; Igor rushes through, slamming it in Victor’s face.

He screams in anger, kicking it and trying to get it open...


INT. VICTOR’S FLAT - BASEMENT LAB - CONTINUOUS

Igor has himself frantically pressed against the door, turning to see Victor who’s rushing from machine to machine, priming them to overload.

IGOR
Victor, we-

VICTOR
WHERE WERE YOU?

TURPIN (O.S.)
OPEN THIS DOOR, NOW!	There’s no
way out!

VICTOR
The bolt- get the bolt-

Igor frantically bolts the door. There’s a crash upstairs; the bobbies have breached the flat.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
I’ve already sent one of Finnegan’s men for a carriage-

IGOR
Victor, stop, we have to get out of here!

VICTOR
And let them have my bloody
machines, not likely!

We can hear bobbies in the flat upstairs.
 
85.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
Get a Lazarus fork.

As Igor frantically searches for a fork, Victor turns, pulling up a panel from the floor, revealing a manhole cover. He begins using a wrench to unscrew the bolts on the cover.

Upstairs, the bobbies start pounding on the door, hitting it with the battering ram. Igor finds a Lazarus Fork.

ALISTAIR (O.S.)
Open the door!	Scotland Yard!

TURPIN (O.S.)
You’re done running, heathens! The road ends here!

VICTOR
Not enough time- We need a
distraction!

Turpin has begun booting the alley door; it’s shaking on its hinges badly, now. Victor tosses the wrench to Igor, and takes the Lazarus fork from him.

IGOR
What’re you-

VICTOR
Get it open!

Igor starts working on the manhole cover, while Victor turns and rips open another hidden compartment, some form of refrigerator; there’s a huge burst of cold air...

...and a corpse falls out of it, into Victor’s arms. Igor stops dead.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
KEEP WORKING YOU DAMN FOOL!

Igor keeps working, distracted, panicked. Victor drags the corpse onto the table; it was a young man, but now it’s emaciated and old and MISSING ITS EYES.

IGOR
Who- ...WHAT-

VICTOR
Igor Hunchback, meet Igor
Straussman.

IGOR
....you- you-

VICTOR
I found him dead months ago,
overdose.
 
86.

Igor stands staring at Victor, pale and shocked. Victor quickly begins locking in the Lazarus Fork. The door upstairs starts to give.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
What’re you waiting for!?	FINISH
THAT COVER!	YOU WANT TO GO BACK TO
THE CIRCUS?	YOU WANT TO GO TO
PRISON OR BE EXECUTED BY THAT
MANIAC, WORK DAMN IT!

Victor continues priming Igor Straussman’s corpse for resurrection, and Igor numbly goes back to unscrewing the cover; he’s nearly done.

VICTOR (CONT’D)
The brain is undoubtedly too
deteriorated- but he still ought to-

The door upstairs gives, and Alistair leads the bobbies in a charge down the stairs, as Victor FIRES THE DYNAMOS. The overloaded machines spark and LIGHT ON FIRE, filling the basement with fiery chaos-

The charge, way too much, BLASTS into Straussman’s corpse, resurrecting it and lighting it ablaze. The screaming, flailing, flaming zombie lurches off the table, and Victor casually SHOVES INTO THE ONRUSHING POLICE.

Brawling, burning chaos ensues.

The door behind Victor is kicked in by Turpin, knocking him down. Turpin bursts in, gun drawn. He takes a shot at Victor, who dives for cover, and then Turpin turns, smacking Igor.

TURPIN
Where’s the hunchback!?	Show him
to me!

Igor staggers back, but finds himself blocked by the anarchy of Straussman and the bobbies. Turpin grabs him, slamming him against one of the machines.

IGOR
No- no- I’m sorry, I’m sorry-

Turpin stares at Igor’s face, the realization hitting him.

TURPIN
My god.	It’s you.

Victor GRABS TURPIN’S HAND, and SHOVES IT INTO THE SPINNING WHEEL OF ONE OF THE BURNING DYNAMOS. Turpin SCREAMS in agony as his right hand is crushed, which in turn jams the dynamo, sending a SPRAY OF SPARKS directly into his face.

The machine explodes into flame, and Igor goes to try to help Turpin as he burns, but Victor grabs him, kicks off the manhole cover, and drags them both down into the sewer hole.
 
87.

INT. THE SEWER - CONTINUOUS

Igor and Victor fall down into the muck, and Victor yanks Igor to his feet, both of them running, splashing through the grime.

There’s a splash from behind them, and Igor looks back into the darkness; he can’t see anything.

Victor leads Igor through the darkness, finally bursting out through a drainage ditch onto

THE STREET

They’re a block away from the house, crawling up onto the street. A Finnegan coach, marked as such, is parked nearby.

VICTOR
Come on, come on!

Igor falters, pulling away from Victor, but then sees someone coming up from the drainage ditch. At this, he jumps onto the alongside Victor, and it speeds off up the street.

As the carriage rounds the corner, Turpin, bloodied, burnt and shaking, one of his eyes milked over and blinded, pulls himself up out of the ditch; he gets a momentary look at the carriage, before he falls backwards, into the ditch.

TURPIN
(barely conscious)
F...Finnegan.

INT. FINNEGAN FAMILY HOME - OFFICE

Finnegan is at the far end of the luxurious home office, playing darts. He’s focused, intense-

Victor bursts in, followed by Igor, who’s clearly still deep in thought.

FINNEGAN
Frankenstein, Igor, what an
unexpected surprise- my god what’re
you covered in-

VICTOR
Sewage.

FINNEGAN
-delightful-

VICTOR
The police have raided my home in
search of Igor.	We managed to
evade capture, but in the process
we gravely injured several police
officers.
 
88.

FINNEGAN
...Ah. Why- why exactly did the police- you know on second thought, it doesn’t really matter. I suppose now you’ll have no choice but to leave London, post haste. At the very least, get your sewage covered bodies out of my father’s office.

VICTOR
Yes, very good.

Finnegan snaps.

FINNEGAN
My family has an estate, the Castle Erskine, in Belgium. Quite rural and secluded, ideally suited to both your needs as a scientist and a, well- fugitive. We could set up a new lab, with help from Dettweiler, and-

VICTOR
Yes yes, good, we’ll leave
immediately.

FINNEGAN
Oh will you?	Ha, right, I’ll go
prepare a coach.

Finnegan heads out of the room.	Victor sighs.

VICTOR
This is your fault, I hope you know that. Parading about town with the acrobat. Still, all is forgiven; perhaps this change of scenery will-

IGOR
I’m not going ANYWHERE with you.

VICTOR
What?

For the first time in our story, Igor is visibly ANGRY.

IGOR
You amoral psychotic piece of shit-

Scratch that, FURIOUS.

VICTOR
Igor-

IGOR
How could you do that? To keep from me for months that you had killed a man and given me his name-
 
89.

VICTOR
I didn’t kill him- you’re
overreacting!

IGOR
No, Victor, enough is enough-

VICTOR
You have a chance here to be part
of-

IGOR
Of what? Being lied to, chased by monsters and hunted by police-

VICTOR
Oh, don’t focus on the dark side-

IGOR
NO!	You’re- you’re a- a BAD
FRIEND.

Victor is startled by the simpleness of the accusation, and maybe even hurt.

VICTOR
After all I did for you-

IGOR
You care for no one but Victor
Frankenstein-

VICTOR
I told you I didn’t kill Straussman-

IGOR
And why should I believe you!? In my time with you I’ve seen you put lives in danger in pursuit of your dreams, your experiments-

VICTOR
Straussman was a waste of space, this fanfare from you is more of a funeral than his own family would’ve given him-

IGOR
So he deserved to be toyed with like a puppet to help you escape, to have his eyes torn out of his head, where was HIS second chance-

VICTOR
I hadn’t invented the fork yet, I couldn’t- Why are you saying these things, can’t you see-

Finnegan reenters.
